<quotes>
Chapter 10 Growing Asian Credit Card Markets Amid the Global Financial Crisis Tae Soo Kang*,1 and Guonan Ma *Director General, Financial Stability Office, Bank of Korea 110, 3-Ga Namdaemun-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul, Korea Email: Taesookang@bok.or.kr Representative Office for Asia and the Pacific, Bank for International Settlements 78/F Two International Financial Centre 8 Finance Street, Central, Hong Kong Tel: 852 2878-7015, Fax: +852 2878-7123 Email: Guonan.ma@bis.org

Asia and China in the Global Economy Downloaded from www.worldscientific.com by NANYANG TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY on 10/11/17. For personal use only.

Abstract Credit card lending in Asia has grown rapidly since the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis. But this growth so far has seen several episodes of sharp booms and busts, posing new risks to financial stability. This chapter attempts to learn more about the credit card markets and shed light on and draw lessons from some of the core common elements in the three recent episodes of credit card lending distress in Asia.

Of the episodes in Hong Kong, Korea and Taiwan during the 2000s, Korea experienced the most serious boom-bust cycle in 2003. Therefore, we take a closer look at the credit card lending crisis there.

Easy monetary conditions, financial liberalization, economies of scales in the credit card business, limited information reporting and sharing, various forms of the principal-agent problem, and the seasoning effect of a fast-growing lending portfolio all contributed to unsustainable credit lending boom. Eventually, excessive indebtedness led to rising credit cost and tighter lending standard, contracting credit, further credit loss, big balance sheet adjustments, risks to the financial system and damages to the economy.

Policymakers in Asian emerging markets such as China and India need to learn about the risks arising from this type of consumer lending and respond with enhanced supervisory capacity, better market infrastructure, and appropriate prudential measures.

JEL Classification: D14, G14, G23, G28 Keywords: Credit card market; Asian consumer finance; consumer debt; financial stability; credit card lending boom-bust cycle; the 2003 Korean credit card crisis; bail-out and bail-in; firm-level panel data; credit information sharing; information asymmetry; credit reference agencies; prudential and supervisory measures; credit scoring,credit reporting and sharing infrastructure; principal-agency problem.

1. Introduction
Against a background of the excessive US household indebtedness and ongoing global financial turmoil, consumer credit in Asia has grown significantly in recent years. While housing finance has dominated the lending to households and thus received the bulk of attention, unsecured personal lending has also expanded rapidly, albeit from a relatively low basis. With rising affluence, banks more oriented to the apparent higher risk-adjusted returns on household lending, and policymakers strategy to pursue more domestic demand-driven growth, the credit card business has been one of the fastest-growing areas of unsecured retail finance in many Asian markets. Expanding credit card markets improve access to credit by a broader portion of the population and represent a more important source of profits for banks and other lenders. They may also affect the transmission of monetary policy and pose new challenges to financial stability.

The levels of outstanding credit card holdings and loans in Asia have not always converged smoothly to levels seen in mature markets.
Rather, in this decade, Asia has witnessed cycles of marked credit card lending booms and busts in a number of its markets. This chapter takes stock of the recent experience in Asian credit card markets generally and examines three episodes of credit card lending distress in particular: Hong Kong in 2002, Korea in 2003 and Chinese Taipei (hereafter Taiwan) in 2006. Our analysis attempts to shed light on three questions. First, why did competition in a line of business that is well established elsewhere still from time to time lead to excessive credit card lending? Second, what was the character of the busts following the credit card lending booms? Third, what lessons can be learned from these episodes?

Answers to these questions will be especially valuable to a number of populous emerging Asian markets, such as China and India, where the credit card segment of retail finance is just starting to take off.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The document discusses the rapid growth of credit card lending in Asia post the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis, which has seen several episodes of sharp booms and busts, posing new risks to financial stability. It analyzes three episodes in Hong Kong, Korea, and Taiwan during the 2000s, focusing on the 2003 Korean credit card crisis. Factors contributing to the unsustainable credit lending boom include easy monetary conditions, financial liberalization, economies of scales in the credit card business, limited information reporting and sharing, various forms of the principal-agent problem, and the seasoning effect of a fast-growing lending portfolio. Excessive indebtedness led to rising credit costs, tighter lending standards, contracting credit, further credit losses, significant balance sheet adjustments, risks to the financial system, and damages to the economy. Policymakers in Asian emerging markets need to learn about the risks arising from this type of consumer lending and respond with enhanced supervisory capacity, better market infrastructure, and appropriate prudential measures.

Key takeaways from the Korean credit card crisis include the importance of detecting early warning signs before imbalances build up excessively for too long, the role of government in facilitating information flows to enhance the functioning of the consumer credit market, and the need to upgrade prudential and supervisory frameworks, especially during the liberalization process. The document suggests that credit information sharing and tiered interest charges could be effective tools in managing consumer lending risks.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在亚洲金融危机之后的1997年，信用卡贷款快速增长。自那时以来，亚洲已经经历了几个急剧的借贷泡沫和崩溃，对金融稳定构成了新的风险。本文分析了香港、韩国和台湾在2000年代的三个案例：2002年的香港、2003年的韩国和2006年的中国台北（以下简称台湾）。重点分析的是2003年的韩国信用卡危机。导致不可持续的信用卡借贷泡沫的因素包括宽松的货币政策条件、金融自由化、信用卡业务的规模经济、有限的信息报告与共享、各种形式的委托代理问题以及快速增长的贷款组合的陈化效应。过度负债导致信贷成本上升、信贷标准收紧、信贷收缩、进一步的信贷损失、大量资产负债表调整、金融系统风险和经济损害。亚洲新兴市场的政策制定者需要了解这种消费者贷款带来的风险，并通过增强监管能力、改善市场基础设施和采取适当的审慎措施来应对。

从韩国信用卡危机中可以得出的关键教训包括：在不平衡积累过多之前，及时发现早期预警信号的重要性；政府在促进消费者信贷市场信息流通以增强其功能方面的作用；以及在金融自由化过程中升级审慎和监管框架的必要性。文章建议使用信用信息共享和分层利率计费等工具有效管理消费者贷款风险。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
