<quotes>
[1] "Studies of chromium species introduced into MCM-41, a typical mesoporous molecular sieve, would thus be useful in developing Cr-containing catalysts with desirable catalytic properties."
[2] "Several types of chromium species,e.g., monochromate, polychromate, and aggregated chromium oxide have been reported to exist on these samples."
[3] "Although there are many studies on the correlation between catalytic properties and coordination structures of the supported chromium oxides [33], such structure-property relationships are still needed to elucidate the Cr-containing mesoporous molecular sieve systems in different types of reactions."
[4] "The two different methods for introducing metal ions bring about remarkably different catalytic behaviors in selective oxidation reactions."
[5] "In the present paper, we report the synthesis of Cr-MCM-41 using the TIE and the DHT methods. The synthesized materials are characterized in detail to gain information about the structures of the introduced chromium species."
[6] "The two kinds of catalytic reactions, viz., the dehydrogenation of propane with carbon dioxide and the partial oxidation of methane with oxygen are investigated and compared to elu- cidate the structure-property relationships for the two types of Cr-MCM-41."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The characterization of chromium species in MCM-41 can assist in creating catalysts with advantageous catalytic characteristics.
2. Multiple forms of chromium species, including monochromates, polychromates, and aggregated chromium oxides, have been documented on these materials.
3. There is a need for further exploration of the connection between catalytic performance and the structural organization of supported chromium oxides, particularly within the context of mesoporous molecular sieve systems.
4. The application of distinct methods for incorporating metal ions results in markedly varying catalytic behaviors in selective oxidation processes.
5. The synthesis of Cr-MCM-41 utilizing the TIE and DHT methods is detailed in this paper, along with a thorough characterization of the introduced chromium species.
6. The examination of two types of catalytic reactions, namely the dehydrogenation of propane with carbon dioxide and the partial oxidation of methane with oxygen, serves to clarify the structure-property correlations for the two types of Cr-MCM-41.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 研究引入到MCM-41（一种典型的介孔分子筛）中的铬物种对于开发具有理想催化性能的Cr基催化剂很有帮助。
2. 这些样品中报道了几种类型的铬物种，例如单铬酸盐、多铬酸盐和聚合铬氧化物。
3. 需要对支持型铬氧化物的催化性能与结构组织之间的关系进行进一步研究，特别是对于不同的反应类型。
4. 不同的方法用于引入金属离子会产生显著不同的选择性氧化反应的催化行为。
5. 在本文中详细描述了通过直接水热合成（DHT）和模板离子交换（TIE）方法合成的Cr-MCM-41，并对其引入的铬物种进行了详细的表征。
6. 对于两种催化反应的研究，即丙烷与二氧化碳的脱氢反应和甲烷与氧气的部分氧化反应，有助于阐明两种Cr-MCM-41的结构-性质关系。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
