<quotes>
55 To whom correspondence should be addressed.
E-mail: khorashe@sharif.edu Korean J. Chem. Eng., 30(1), 55-61 (2013)
DOI: 10.1007/s11814-012-0095-z

Propane dehydrogenation is a process used for the production of propylene, an important raw material in the production of polypropylene, acrolein, acrylic acid, polygas chemicals, and oligomers. It is a highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction requiring high temperatures and low pressures. The catalyst used in this process is typically a supported platinum or chromium catalyst, with Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3 being extensively used at both laboratory and industrial scales. The role of platinum modifiers is to selectively weaken the platinum-paraffin interaction. However, the formation of coke on the catalyst surface causes rapid deactivation and necessitates catalyst regeneration.

Water and light oxygenates, when used in low levels in the feed stream, can serve as catalyst modifiers, reducing coke formation and enhancing catalyst activity. Some studies have shown that the addition of small amounts of oxygen can improve the pretreatment in catalytic PDH. In this work, catalytic PHD was carried out in a fixed-bed quartz reactor in the temperature range of 575 to 620 oC using a Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3 catalyst with feed containing small amounts of water.

A kinetic model for propane dehydrogenation and coke formation was presented, investigating the effect of small amounts of water added to the feed and its influence over catalyst deactivation. The model was capable of predicting the optimum amount of water for maximum propane conversion, explaining the observed optimum level in the amounts of water added to the feed.

The model included a monolayer-multilayer mechanism for coke growth kinetics, considering both coke deposition and catalyst sintering in the catalyst deactivation model. The model predictions for both propane conversion and coke formation with time-on-stream were in good agreement with experimental data.

The model parameters were optimized using an objective function defined by the root mean square of error between experimental and predicted propane conversions. The overall quality of optimization was judged by an acceptable agreement between experimental and predicted propane conversions.

The results showed that adding water as an oxygenated additive up to the optimum levels would improve propane conversion and reduce coke formation. The optimum amount of water was found to increase with increasing reaction temperature.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The composition of coke deposits in catalytic systems, particularly in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, varies across different reaction conditions and catalyst types. In PDH, coke formation originates almost solely from propylene. The model used to describe coke formation in this context is a simple mechanistic model called the monolayer-multilayer coke growth model (MMCGM). This model was first proposed by Nam and Kittrell, generalized, and used successfully by several authors. 

The rate of coke deposition with time is given by the sum of coke formation on the surface of the catalyst (monolayer coke) and the rate of the simultaneous multilayer coke deposition. The formation of monolayer coke is proportional to the fraction of sites uncovered on the first layer, while the formation of multilayer coke can start as soon as there is monolayer coke available and is proportional to the fraction of sites covered on the monolayer. The presence of steam in the reaction mixture leads to a continuous gasification of the deposited coke, resulting in a net rate of coke formation.

In this study, the model was capable of predicting the optimum amount of water for maximum propane conversion, explaining the observed optimum level in the amounts of water added to the feed. The presence of small amounts of water in the feed reduced coke deposition on the catalyst, thus reducing catalyst deactivation. However, the addition of too much water resulted in extensive sintering, leading to a decrease in propane conversions. The model parameters were optimized using an objective function defined by the root mean square of error between experimental and predicted propane conversions. The overall quality of optimization was judged by an acceptable agreement between experimental and predicted propane conversions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在催化系统中，特别是丙烷脱氢（PDH）反应中，焦炭沉积物的组成随着不同的反应条件和催化剂类型而变化。在PDH中，焦炭形成主要来源于丙烯。用于描述焦炭形成的模型是一个简单的机制模型，称为单层多层焦炭生长模型（MMCGM）。该模型最初由Nam和Kittrell提出，并被多位作者成功地推广和应用。

焦炭沉积率随时间的变化是表面催化剂（单层焦炭）形成的焦炭加上同时进行的多层焦炭沉积的速率之和。单层焦炭的形成与第一层暴露的位点比例成正比，而多层焦炭的形成一旦有单层焦炭可用就开始，其形成与单层上覆盖的位点的比例成正比。反应混合物中的蒸汽导致沉积的焦炭持续气化，产生净的焦炭形成速率。

在这项研究中，该模型能够预测最佳的水含量以实现最大丙烯转化率，解释了添加到流体中水的最佳量。少量水的存在减少了催化剂上的焦炭沉积，从而降低了催化剂的失活。然而，过多的水会导致严重的烧结，导致丙烯转化率下降。模型参数通过定义实验值与预测丙烯转化率之间的均方根误差的目标函数优化。优化的整体质量通过实验值与预测丙烯转化率之间的可接受的一致性来判断。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
