<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "The world propylene production capacity, based on the use of catalytic dehydrogenation of propane has increased steadily over the past 10 years [13] and is ex- pected to grow even further under the right economic conditions relative to the availability of propane; on the other hand, environmental concerns on the use of MTBE are expected to adversely impact the future ex- pansion of isobutane dehydrogenation applications."
          [2] "Although production of ethylene via catalytic dehy- drogenation over Pt catalysts is very selective (about 95%), extension of this dehydrogenation technology to ethane has not taken place due to the need for even more severe operating conditions; higher temperatures and lower pressures. Such conditions cause excessive coking of the catalyst or require costlier operation under vacuum."
          [3] "The equilibrium conversion increases at higher Fig. 4 indicates that the temperature required for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins is much higher than for heavy paraf- fins. For 40% conversion, for example, the dehydro- genation of propane requires a temperature of at least about 580 C, while dodecane can be theoretically dehydrogenated to the same extent at only 450 C."
          [4] "The equilibrium constant for paraffin dehydrogena- tion increases significantly as the carbon number in- creases."
          [1] "Catalytic paraffin dehydrogenation for the production of olefins has been in commercial use since the late 1930s, while catalytic paraffin oxydehydrogenation for olefin production has not yet been commercialized."
          [2] "Commercial processes for the catalytic dehydrogenation of propane and butanes attain per-pass conversions in the range of 3060%, while the catalytic dehydrogenation of C10C14 paraffins typically operates at conversion levels of 1020%."
          [3] "In the year 2000, nearly 7 million metric tons of C3C4 olefins and 2 million metric tons of C10C14 range olefins were produced via catalytic dehydrogenation."
          [4] "Oxydehydrogenation employs catalysts containing vanadium and, more recently, platinum."
          [5] "Oxydehydrogenation at 1000 C and very short residence time over Pt and Pt-Sn catalysts can produce ethylene in higher yields than in steam cracking."
          [6] "However, there are a number of issues related to safety and process upsets that need to be addressed."
          [7] "Important objectives in oxydehydrogenation are attaining high selectivity to olefins with high conversion of paraffin and minimizing potentially dangerous mixtures of paraffin and oxidant."
          [8] "More recently, the use of carbon dioxide as an oxidant for ethane conversion to ethylene has been investigated as a potential way to reduce the negative impact of dangerous oxidantparaffin mixtures and to achieve higher selectivity."
          [9] "While catalytic dehydrogenation reflects a relatively mature and well-established technology, oxydehydrogenation can in many respects be characterized as still being in its infancy."
          [10] "Oxydehydrogenation, however, offers substantial thermodynamic advantages and is an area of active research in many fronts."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          Light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, are crucial to the chemical industry, serving as key building blocks for a wide range of products including plastics, detergents, and synthetic fibers. The production capacity for propylene, particularly through catalytic dehydrogenation of propane, has seen steady growth over the past decade and is projected to further expand under favorable economic conditions, especially with the availability of propane. However, environmental concerns regarding the use of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) are anticipated to negatively affect the future expansion of isobutane dehydrogenation applications. Ethylene production through catalytic dehydrogenation over platinum catalysts is highly selective, but extending this technology to ethane requires more severe operating conditions, such as higher temperatures and lower pressures, which can lead to excessive catalyst coking or necessitate more expensive vacuum operations. The thermodynamic challenge for light olefin synthesis is that higher temperatures are required for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins compared to heavy paraffins. For instance, achieving 40% conversion of propane demands a temperature of at least 580 degrees Celsius, whereas dodecane can be dehydrogenated to the same extent at a lower temperature of 450 degrees Celsius. The equilibrium constant for paraffin dehydrogenation increases significantly with the increase in carbon number. Light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, are crucial to the chemical industry, serving as fundamental building blocks for a wide range of products, including plastics, detergents, and synthetic fibers. Propylene and ethylene production via catalytic dehydrogenation has been a commercial practice since the late 1930s, with significant volumes produced annually. In 2000, nearly 7 million metric tons of C3C4 olefins and 2 million metric tons of C10C14 olefins were produced through this method. The production of light olefins faces thermodynamic challenges, particularly related to temperature, pressure, and the length of the alkane chain. Higher temperatures are required for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to achieve economically attractive conversions, which can lead to increased side reactions, coke formation, and catalyst deactivation. The equilibrium conversion for dehydrogenation increases with the carbon number in the paraffin, making the dehydrogenation of heavy paraffins more favorable at lower temperatures. Oxydehydrogenation, which is still in its infancy, offers thermodynamic advantages by removing the equilibrium conversion restriction of dehydrogenation, but it presents safety and process control challenges due to the potentially explosive mixtures of paraffins and oxygen. The use of carbon dioxide as an oxidant is being explored to improve selectivity and safety in ethane conversion to ethylene. Light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, are crucial to the chemical industry, serving as key building blocks for a wide range of products, including plastics, detergents, and synthetic fibers. The market trends for these olefins are influenced by global demand for petrochemical products, with steady growth expected due to increasing industrialization and population growth. The primary production methods for light olefins include steam cracking and catalytic dehydrogenation. Steam cracking is the most widely used process, involving the thermal cracking of hydrocarbons at high temperatures to produce a mixture of olefins and other hydrocarbons. Catalytic dehydrogenation, on the other hand, is a more selective process that converts paraffins to olefins using catalysts. The thermodynamic challenges associated with the synthesis of light olefins are significant, particularly in relation to temperature, pressure, and the length of the alkane chain. Higher temperatures are required for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to achieve economically attractive conversions, but this also accelerates catalyst deactivation and side reactions. Pressure plays a role in shifting the equilibrium towards higher conversions, with lower pressures favoring dehydrogenation. The length of the alkane chain affects the equilibrium conversion, with longer chains requiring lower temperatures for dehydrogenation. Oxydehydrogenation, which uses oxygen as a co-reactant, offers thermodynamic advantages by removing the hydrogen product, thus shifting the equilibrium towards higher conversions. However, this process is still in the developmental stage and faces challenges related to safety, process upsets, and the need for highly selective catalysts. Light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, are crucial to the chemical industry, serving as key building blocks for a wide range of products including plastics, detergents, and synthetic fibers. The market for these olefins is substantial, with millions of metric tons produced annually through catalytic dehydrogenation processes. The production of C3C4 olefins and C10C14 range olefins via catalytic dehydrogenation in the year 2000 alone amounted to nearly 7 million and 2 million metric tons, respectively. The commercial processes for dehydrogenation of propane and butanes achieve per-pass conversions of 30-60%, while those for C10C14 paraffins operate at lower conversion levels of 10-20%. Oxydehydrogenation, a process that employs catalysts containing vanadium and, more recently, platinum, is an area of active research due to its potential thermodynamic advantages. However, it is not yet commercialized due to safety concerns and the challenge of achieving high selectivity and conversion without dangerous paraffin-oxidant mixtures. Recent investigations into using carbon dioxide as an oxidant for ethane conversion to ethylene aim to address these issues and improve selectivity.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          轻烯烃，如丙烯和乙烯，对化工行业至关重要，是塑料、洗涤剂和合成纤维等广泛产品的关键原料。基于丙烷催化脱氢的丙烯生产能力在过去十年中稳步增长，并且在有利的经济条件下，特别是丙烷的可用性下，预计将进一步扩大。然而，对使用甲基叔丁基醚(MTBE)的环境担忧预计会对异丁烷脱氢应用的未来扩张产生负面影响。通过铂催化剂催化脱氢生产乙烯具有高度选择性，但将这项技术扩展到乙烷需要更苛刻的操作条件，如更高的温度和更低的压力，这可能导致催化剂过度积碳或需要更昂贵的真空操作。轻烯烃合成的热力学挑战在于，轻石蜡的脱氢需要比重石蜡更高的温度。例如，要达到40%的丙烷转化率，需要至少580摄氏度的温度，而十二烷可以在较低的450摄氏度温度下脱氢到相同的程度。随着碳数的增加，石蜡脱氢的平衡常数显著增加。轻质烯烃，如丙烯和乙烯，是化工行业的重要组成部分，作为塑料、洗涤剂和合成纤维等广泛产品的关键原料。自20世纪30年代末以来，通过催化脱氢生产丙烯和乙烯已成为商业实践，每年生产大量此类烯烃。2000年，通过这种方法生产了近700万吨C3C4烯烃和200万吨C10C14烯烃。轻烯烃的生产面临着与温度、压力和烷烃链长度相关的热力学挑战。为了实现经济上吸引人的转化率，需要在较高温度下进行轻烷烃的脱氢，这可能导致副反应增加、焦炭形成和催化剂失活。脱氢的平衡转化率随着烷烃中碳数的增加而增加，使得在较低温度下重烷烃的脱氢更为有利。氧脱氢，尽管仍处于起步阶段，提供了热力学优势，通过消除脱氢的平衡转化限制，但因烷烃和氧气可能形成爆炸性混合物，带来了安全和过程控制的挑战。正在探索使用二氧化碳作为氧化剂，以提高乙烯从乙烷转化的乙烯选择性和安全性。轻烯烃，如丙烯和乙烯，是化工行业至关重要的组成部分，作为塑料、洗涤剂和合成纤维等广泛产品的基础原料。自20世纪30年代末以来，通过催化脱氢生产丙烯和乙烯已成为商业实践，每年生产大量此类烯烃。2000年，通过这种方法生产了近700万吨C3C4烯烃和200万吨C10C14烯烃。轻烯烃的生产面临着与温度、压力和烷烃链长度相关的热力学挑战。为了实现经济上吸引人的转化率，需要在较高温度下进行轻烷烃的脱氢，这可能导致副反应增加、焦炭形成和催化剂失活。脱氢的平衡转化率随着烷烃中碳数的增加而增加，使得在较低温度下重烷烃的脱氢更为有利。氧脱氢，尽管仍处于起步阶段，提供了热力学优势，通过消除脱氢的平衡转化限制，但因烷烃和氧气可能形成爆炸性混合物，带来了安全和过程控制的挑战。正在探索使用二氧化碳作为氧化剂，以提高乙烯从乙烷转化的乙烯选择性和安全性。轻质烯烃，如丙烯和乙烯，是化工行业的重要组成部分，作为塑料、洗涤剂和合成纤维等广泛产品的关键原料。这些烯烃的市场巨大，每年通过催化脱氢过程生产数以百万吨计。仅在2000年，通过催化脱氢生产的C3C4烯烃和C10C14范围烯烃就分别达到了近700万和200万公吨。丙烷和丁烷的脱氢商业过程实现了30-60%的单程转化率，而C10C14烷烃的转化率则较低，为10-20%。氧脱氢，一种使用含钒和最近含铂催化剂的过程，由于其潜在的热力学优势，是当前研究的热点。然而，由于安全问题和在不产生危险的烷烃-氧化剂混合物的情况下实现高选择性和转化的挑战，它尚未实现商业化。最近对使用二氧化碳作为氧化剂将乙烷转化为乙烯的研究旨在解决这些问题并提高选择性。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
