I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


element not found
The Journal of Physical Chemistry BVol 103/Issue 19Article Cite Share Jump to Expand ARTICLEApril 24, 1999 Microcalorimetric, Infrared Spectroscopic, and DFT Studies of Ethylene Adsorption on Pt/SiO2 and PtSn/SiO2 Catalysts Jianyi ShenJosephine M. HillRamchandra M. WatweBrian E. SpiewakJames A. Dumesic View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract Microcalorimetric and infrared spectroscopic measurements for adsorption of ethylene on Pt/SiO2 and PtSn/SiO2 (58 wt % Pt) have been carried out at temperatures from 173 to 300 K. Ethylene adsorption on Pt and PtSn at temperatures lower than 233 K leads to the formation of π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species. Ethylidyne species begin to form at temperatures higher than 263 K. Formation of ethylidyne species is suppressed by the presence of Sn. The main surface species observed during ethylene adsorption at room temperature are ethylidyne species on Pt/SiO2, di-σ-bonded ethylene on 7Pt/Sn/SiO2, and π-bonded ethylene on 3Pt/Sn/SiO2. The heat of formation of ethylidyne species and coadsorbed atomic hydrogen on Pt was found to be 157 kJ/mol, while the average heat for the formation of π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species on Pt was 125 kJ/mol. The heats for formation of π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene on PtSn surfaces were found to be between 98 and 106 kJ/mol. Results from quantum chemical calculations employing density functional theory (DFT) for Pt19 and Pt16Sn3 clusters indicate that Sn donates electrons to the 6sp and 5d orbitals of platinum. These calculations show that the bonding between ethylidyne species and 3-fold hollow sites composed of adjacent Pt atoms involves electron donation from ethylidyne into 6sp orbitals of Pt and back-donation of electrons from 5d orbitals of Pt to the ethylidyne species. The higher electron density on the Pt atoms caused by Sn leads to more repulsive interactions for the formation of ethylidyne species than for the formation for π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species, and the higher occupation of the Pt 5d orbitals in the presence of Sn requires more extensive back-donation of electrons from Pt to ethylidyne species. These electronic effects caused by Sn weaken the bonding of ethylidyne species at neighboring 3-fold hollow sites.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright  1999 American Chemical Society Subjects what are subjects Adsorption Catalysts Hydrocarbons Infrared Light Platinum
University of WisconsinMadison.
Nanjing University. * To whom correspondence should be addressed.
Present address: 3M Center, St. Paul, MN 55144-1000.
Introduction Platinum catalysts are widely used in the chemical and petrochemical industries for hydrocarbon processing reactions such as hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, isomerization, aromatization, and hydrogenolysis. 1,2 Tin is added to platinum catalysts to alter the product distribution for hydrocarbon conversion, e.g., to inhibit isomerization and hydrogenolysis reactions and to thereby enhance the selectivity for dehydrogenation processes. 3-12 Various studies have been conducted to characterize the properties of Pt and PtSn catalysts in terms of structure, adsorption behavior, and coking characteristics.10,13-29 In the present study, we report results of microcalorimetric measurements, infrared spectroscopic studies, and quantum chemical calculations to probe the role of tin in modifying the surface properties of platinum catalysts.The interactions of light hydrocarbon species with well-defined metal surfaces have been studied extensively in the literature using a variety of experimental techniques (e.g., see refs 30 and 31). For example, vibrational spectroscopies have identified the nature of surface species formed upon adsorption and/or reaction of hydrocarbons with metal single crystals as well as with supported metal catalysts (see refs 32 and 33 and references therein). In these studies, it has been observed that the species formed from ethylene adsorption depend on temperature and the structure of the metal surface.24,33 Passos et al.24 have reviewed the species formed on Pt(111), Pt(110), Pt(210), Pt(100), and Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. De La Cruz and Sheppard34 observed π- and di-σ-bonded ethylene species on Pt/SiO2 catalysts at low temperatures (<189 K), and some of the di-σ-bonded ethylene species were converted to ethylidyne species when the temperature was increased to room temperature. Gay35 studied the adsorption of ethylene on Pt/SiO2 and Pt/Al2O3 catalysts at 298 K using NMR techniques but was only able to conclusively identify π-adsorbed ethylene species. Studies of ethylene adsorption on Pt(111) have identified π-bonded ethylene species at temperatures below 52 K,36 di-σ bonded ethylene species from 100 to 250 K,32,37-42 and ethylidyne species from 280 to 450 K.32,38,40-49 Some of the surface species formed upon interaction of ethylene with metal surfaces are shown schematically in Figure 1.The addition of tin to platinum leads to the formation of a substitutional alloy with platinum, thereby decreasing the number of 3-fold hollow sites composed of adjacent Pt atoms, which are necessary for the formation of ethylidyne species. 50,51 In addition to this geometric effect, there is evidence that tin also has an electronic effect on platinum. In particular, the interaction of Pt surface atoms with adsorbed hydrocarbon species appears to be weakened by the presence of neighboring Sn atoms.13,19,29,52-56 For example, temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) experiments show that band maxima are shifted to lower temperatures when Pt was alloyed with Sn.29,53 Paffett and co-workers53 have also found that the presence of Sn may alter the nature of the surface species formed on Pt. In this respect, while di-σ-bonded ethylene formed to similar extents from ethylene adsorption on Pt(111) and PtSn single-crystal surfaces, the formation of ethylidyne species was suppressed on PtSn surfaces.Figure 1 Schematic diagram of surface species for the adsorption of ethylene reported in the literature33,34 (* represents a surface metal atom).In the present work we have employed microcalorimetric adsorption measurements and in situ infrared spectroscopy at temperatures from 173 to 300 K to study the adsorption of ethylene on silica-supported Pt and PtSn catalysts. Adsorption microcalorimetry is an effective method to study heats of interaction of hydrocarbons with metal surfaces. In particular, microcalorimetry provides a measure of the strengths of bonds formed between adsorbed species and the surface. For example, King and co-workers have used ultrahigh vacuum microcalorimetry to measure heats of ethylene adsorption on various platinum single crystals, 57-60 while Dumesic and co-workers have used heat-flux microcalorimetry to measure heats of ethylene and acetylene adsorption on metal powders and supported metal catalysts.7,61,62 Infrared spectroscopic studies provide information about the types of surface species formed at various reaction conditions, and this information is then combined with microcalorimetric data collected at the same reaction conditions to allow assignment of specific surface bond strengths to particular adsorbed species. In addition, we utilize quantum calculations using density functional theory (DFT) to provide complementary information about the effects of tin on the surface bond strengths of adsorbed species associated with Pt.Experimental Section (1) Microcalorimetry. Microcalorimetric measurements were performed at temperatures between 173 and 300 K using a Setaram BT2.15D heat-flux calorimeter. This calorimeter was connected to a gas handling system and a volumetric system employing Baratron capacitance manometers for precision pressure measurement (0.5 × 10-4 Torr). The maximum apparent leak rate of the volumetric system (including the calorimetric cells) was 10-6 Torr/min in a system volume of approximately 70 cm3 (i.e., 10-6 μmol/min). Over a typical experimental run that lasts approximately 710 h, the extent of contamination from the leak rate is low (i.e., <0.1 μmol) relative to the saturation coverage (ca. 1530 μmol).The procedures for microcalorimetric measurements used in this study have been described in detail elsewhere. 28,63 Briefly, each sample was treated ex situ in ultrapure flowing gases (99.999% pure hydrogen and helium from Liquid Carbonic) and subsequently sealed in a Pyrex capsule. The capsule containing the sample was then broken in a special set of calorimetric cells28 after the sample had attained thermal equilibrium with the calorimeter. After the capsule was broken, the microcalorimetric data were collected by sequentially introducing small doses (110 μmol) of probe molecules (H2, CO, or C2H4) onto the sample until it became saturated. The resulting heat response for each dose was recorded as a function of time and integrated to determine the energy released (mJ). The amount of gas adsorbed (μmol) was determined volumetrically from the dose, equilibrium pressures, and the system volumes and temperatures. The time required for the pressure to equilibrate in the calorimeter after each dose was approximately 1 min, and the heat response was monitored for 2030 min after each dose to ensure that all heat was detected and to allow the heat response to return to the baseline value. The differential heat (kJ/mol), defined as the negative of the enthalpy change of adsorption per mole of gas adsorbed, was then calculated for each dose by dividing the heat released by the amount adsorbed. (2) Catalyst Preparation and Characterization. Silica-supported Pt and PtSn catalysts were prepared by impregnation methods. Silica powder (Cab-o-Sil fumed silica, S17D provided by Cabot Co) was added to an aqueous solution of tetraamineplatinum(II) nitrate (Aldrich) to form a gel after stirring. The gel was dried at room temperature for 48 h and then dried further at 393 K overnight. Finally, the dried sample was heated in O2 at 573 K for 4 h.A methanol solution of tributyltin acetate (Aldrich) was used for the addition of tin to the Pt/SiO2 catalyst under flowing N2 gas atmosphere. The PtSn catalysts were dried at 393 K overnight and heated at 573 K for 4 h in flowing O2. Catalysts with Pt/Sn atomic ratios of 7:1, 3:1, and 1:2 were prepared in this manner. Elemental compositions (Galbraith Laboratories) of all catalysts are given in Table 1. These catalysts will be referred to as 7Pt/Sn/SiO2, 3Pt/Sn/SiO2, and 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2, respectively. Calcination of the Pt/SiO2 catalyst before addition of tin is essential to achieve a high metal surface area.Sample treatments for microcalorimetric experiments were performed in a down-flow Pyrex treatment cell.28 A Pyrex NMR tube (Wilmad Glass) having an outer diameter of 5 mm and a length of 8 cm was sealed to the side of a glass treatment cell and served as a capsule in which to seal the sample. Ultrahigh purity hydrogen (99.999%, Liquid Carbonic) was used for sample reduction. The sample was heated to 723 K in 8 h and held at this temperature for 8 h under flowing H2 (300 mL/min). According to our previous work,7 PtSn alloy particles form on PtSn/SiO2 catalysts after reduction in H2 at 723 K. The hydrogen was then evacuated for 5 min, and the sample was purged in ultrahigh purity helium (99.999%, Liquid Carbonic) for 2 h. Finally, a torch was used to seal the sample in He within the capsule, and this capsule was subsequently loaded into the calorimetric cell.Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) measurements were performed with a Phillips CM200 microscope equipped with a LaB6 filament to determine metal particle sizes. X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements were performed on a Scintag PadV X-ray diffractometer using Cu Kα radiation with a scan rate of 0.4 deg/min. (3) Infrared Spectroscopy. An infrared spectroscopy cell was constructed for collection of in situ IR spectra at temperatures from 153 to 673 K. The design of the cell is shown schematically in Figure 2. The CaF2 windows were directly fixed to flanges and can be used at temperatures up to 623 K. The window assemblies were purchased from Harshaw Bicron (OH). The assemblies were mounted to two sides of a Del-Seal Tee (MDC Vacuum Product Co.) and sealed with copper gaskets. A flange with a sample holder, liquid nitrogen inlet and outlet, thermocouple, and heating wire was attached to the third port of the Del-Seal Tee. Temperature control in the sample holder is obtained with a combination of cooling with liquid nitrogen flowing through the cell and heating from a resistance wire.Figure 2 Schematic diagram of the IR cell for measurements at temperatures from 150 to 673 K: (a) front view; (b) side view. Notes: (1) There is a cooling water line around the windows. (2) The heating wire outside of the chamber is used to heat samples up to 773 K for reduction and purging. (3) The heating wire inside of the chamber is used to maintain constant low temperatures.Table 1: Composition and Initial Heats of Ethylene Adsorption for Pt and Pt/Sn Catalysts initialheatforC2H4adsorption(kJ/mol)a catalyst Ptloading (wt%) Snloading (wt%) 300K 263K 233K 203K 173K Pt/SiO2 5.6   157 135 125 125 125 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 6.2 0.5 135 113 106 106 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 8.1 1.6 129 108 98 98 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2 5.4 5.4 94 aThe heat of adsorption is defined as the negative of the enthalpy change of adsorption per mole of gas adsorbed.Catalyst samples (ca. 20 mg) are pressed into self-supporting pellets (1.3 cm2) and loaded into the IR cell for subsequent studies. An important aspect of the cell design is to maximize the contact area of the sample pellet with the metal sample holder. The diameters of the pellet and the opening of the sample holder are 13 and 6 mm, respectively; therefore, about 80% of the pellet area is in contact with metal parts of the sample holder, which leads to effective heat transfer to the sample. Another feature of the design is to fix the thermocouple through two pieces of ceramic (as shown in Figure 2) such that the thermocouple is in contact with the pellet and does not contact the metal parts of the sample holder. In addition, the tip of the thermocouple is flattened to increase the contact area with the pellet. The temperature measurement was calibrated by position-ing a second thermocouple on the opposite side of the pellet. The difference between the two readings at temperatures near 173 K was 5 K, and this difference decreased at higher temperatures.After the sample pellet was loaded into the IR cell, the catalyst was reduced in flowing hydrogen and purged in helium using the same procedure as for microcalorimetric adsorption measurements (i.e., reduction in H2 at 723 K for 8 h and purging at 723 K in He for 2 h). Next, the IR cell was placed in the chamber of the infrared spectrometer (Mattson Galaxy Series FTIR 5000) and connected to a high-vacuum and gas-handling system. The high-vacuum system was equipped with a stainless steel dosing section and a Baratron capacitance manometer (accuracy of 0.01 Torr). Approximately 0.2 Torr of He was kept inside the cell to facilitate heat conduction. After the desired temperature was reached, the spectrum for the clean sample was collected. Next, a known amount of ethylene was dosed onto the sample, corresponding to approximately 30% saturation coverage of the Pt surface, as determined by microcalorimetric adsorption studies. All dosed molecules were adsorbed, and no gas-phase ethylene was detectable in the cell. The reported spectrum for each sample is the difference between the spectrum of the clean sample and the spectrum after ethylene dosing. All spectra were collected in the absorbance mode with 2 cm-1 resolution and with 2500 scans (collection time of ca. 90 min during which the temperature fluctuation was 2 K).Ethylene (99.9%, Matheson) used for both microcalorimetric adsorption and IR studies was purified by successive freeze/pump/thaw cycles with liquid nitrogen. (4) Quantum Chemical Calculations. Quantum chemical calculations employing density functional theory (DFT) have proven to be useful in predicting accurate geometries and reasonable energetics for clusters containing transition metals. 64-67 In the present study, DFT calculations were performed on DEC workstations with Jaguar software (Schrodinger, Inc.). 68 The chosen DFT method uses a hybrid method employing Becke's three-parameter approach, B3LYP. 69 This functional combines the exact HF exchange, Slater's local exchange functional, and Becke's 1988 nonlocal gradient correction to the exchange functional with the correlation functionals of VoskoWilkNusair (VWN) and LeeYangParr (LYP).The basis set employed in the calculations (LACVP**) uses an effective core potential on all Pt atoms and was developed at Los Alamos National Laboratory by Hay and Wadt. 70 The electrons treated explicitly on Pt are the outermost core and valence electrons (5s25p65d96s1). The remaining core electrons were treated with effective core potentials that account for massvelocity and relativistic effects. The inclusion of the outermost core electrons with the valence electrons is necessary because these core orbitals have a similar size as the valence orbitals. The C and H atoms have been treated with the 6-31G** basis set, 71 with all electrons being treated explicitly.The electronic energy change of adsorption, ΔEads, is defined as where Ecluster/adsorbate is the electronic energy of adsorbate on the cluster, Ecluster is the electronic energy of the bare cluster, and Eadsorbate is the electronic energy of the adsorbate.One of the limitations of cluster calculations is the dependence of the calculated change in electronic energy on the shape and size of the cluster. We have performed calculations on two types of Pt clusters to address this cluster size effect on the calculated energies. From our results, it can be noted that while the two types of clusters give different values for the change in electronic energy for adsorption, both clusters predict the same effect for the addition of Sn to Pt.The first type of cluster has 19 Pt atoms. It is constructed from a 10-atom Pt cluster as follows. The Pt10 cluster is comprised of three layers containing six, three, and one Pt atoms, and, these layers correspond to (111) planes stacked in the ABC arrangement of the bulk fcc crystal structure. The nearest-neighbor distances between metal atoms were constrained to be equal to the bulk value of 2.77 Å. The Pt19 cluster is comprised of these same three layers, with additional atoms being added to the second and third layers such that the three layers contain six, six, and seven Pt atoms. Geometry optimizations were conducted for π-bonded ethylene, di-σ bonded ethylene, and ethylidyne species on Pt10 clusters. The additional nine Pt atoms were then added to the second and third layers of the Pt10 clusters to make Pt19 clusters, and single-point energy calculations were conducted on these clusters containing π-bonded ethylene, di-σ bonded ethylene, and ethylidyne species. The effects of Sn on the adsorptive properties were probed by conducting calculations using a Pt16Sn3 cluster formed by replacing the three corners of the six-atom top layer with Sn atoms.The second type of cluster has 10 Pt atoms. The details of this cluster can be found elsewhere. 72 In this approach, the entire cluster was optimized; i.e., the metal atoms were also allowed to relax from the constrained value of 2.77 Å. Calculations were conducted for π-bonded ethylene, di-σ bonded ethylene, and ethylidyne species on Pt10 clusters and Pt6Sn4 clusters. The Sn atoms in the Pt6Sn4 cluster were placed at the three corners of the six-atom top layer and at the one-atom bottom layer.Another limitation of the cluster approach is its incomplete structural representation. To address this issue, we have performed a periodic infinite plane-wave calculation. 73 This slab approach rigorously accounts for the true electronic structure and extended field effects for a well-defined surface. In this preliminary study, we have used two-layer (111) Pt and PtSn slabs with a quarter monolayer coverage of CH. There are eight metal atoms in a unit cell. The methylidyne species is expected to display similar behavior as ethylidyne species.Results (1) Catalyst Characterization. Characterization studies of the Pt/SiO2 catalyst using TEM indicated that the average Pt particle size was between 2 and 5 nm. The majority of particles observed in the micrographs of PtSn catalysts were smaller than 5 nm in diameter, but some larger particles (up to 40 nm for the 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2 catalyst) were also detected as the amount of tin increased in the catalyst. This increase in the metal particle size upon addition of Sn has been reported previously.11,22,74,75 X-ray diffraction studies conducted on the various catalysts after reduction in H2 did not show the presence of well-defined diffraction peaks, indicating that Pt and Sn were well dispersed for all Pt and PtSn catalysts.Figure 3 shows a plot of the differential heat versus adsorbate coverage for hydrogen adsorption on the Pt and PtSn catalysts. The initial heat and monolayer coverage for the Pt/SiO2 catalyst were 94 kJ/mol and 95 μmol/g, respectively. Throughout this paper, one monolayer is defined as the saturation uptake of an adsorbate by the platinum surface (μmol/g), as measured in microcalorimetric experiments (i.e., the amount of gas adsorbed was determined volumetrically from the dose and equilibrium pressures, combined with the system volume and temperature). The initial heat is in agreement with the value of 93 kJ/mol reported previously for Pt/SiO2 catalysts with lower metal loadings.7 The saturation hydrogen uptake corresponds to a Pt dispersion of 65% for the Pt/SiO2 catalyst. Both the initial heat and saturation coverage for adsorption of H2 decreased with increasing tin content in the catalysts. Hydrogen adsorption on the 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2 catalyst was essentially completely inhibited. TEM and XRD studies indicate that the addition of Sn does not lead to a sufficiently large increase in the metal particle size; therefore, the decrease in H2 uptake caused by the addition of Sn can be attributed to the blockage of surface Pt sites by Sn atoms and not to agglomeration of the Pt particles.Figure 3 Differential heat versus adsorbate coverage for adsorption of H2 at room temperature on Pt/SiO2 (·), 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 (), 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 (), and 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2 ().Figure 4 shows the differential heat versus adsorbate coverage plots for the adsorption of carbon monoxide on the Pt and PtSn catalysts. The initial heat for CO adsorption on the 10% Pt/SiO2 catalyst was equal to 142 kJ/mol, and this value agrees with the previously reported value of 144 kJ/mol7 for other Pt/SiO2 catalysts. The heat and saturation coverage for the adsorption of CO decrease with increasing tin content in the catalysts, as seen by other investigators.7,29,54 Figure 4 Differential heat versus adsorbate coverage for adsorption of CO at room temperature on Pt/SiO2 (·), 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 (), 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 (), and 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2 ().According to the saturation uptakes for adsorption of H2 and CO shown in Figures 3 and 4, the H/CO ratios are 1.4, 1.1, 0.8, and 0.2 for the Pt, 7Pt/Sn, 3Pt/Sn, and 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2 catalysts, respectively. The H/CO ratio decreases significantly with increasing tin content. The very low value of the H/CO ratio for the 1Pt/2Sn catalyst may be due to the presence of Pt surface atoms that are completely surrounded by Sn atoms such that CO can adsorb molecularly while H2 cannot adsorb dissociatively. 29,76 In addition, the addition of Sn may weaken the adsorption of hydrogen atoms on 3-fold hollow sites more than the addition of Sn weakens the adsorption of CO on Pt atop sites. (2) Identification of Surface Species by IR Spectroscopy. Figure 5 shows infrared spectra collected for ethylene adsorbed on the Pt/SiO2 catalyst at 173 K. Since ethylene also adsorbs on the silica support at low temperatures, it is possible to reach coverages that are significantly higher than the one monolayer coverage defined herein. The spectrum collected at high coverage (15 monolayers) is the same as the spectrum obtained by De La Cruz and Sheppard for the adsorption of ethylene on a 16% Pt/SiO2 catalyst at 100 K,34 and it is similar to the spectrum collected by Mohsin et al. 77 on a 3% Pt/Al2O3 catalyst at 180 K with the exception that we do not see ethylidyne species on our Pt/SiO2 as was seen on their Pt/Al2O3 catalyst at low temperature. The assignment of the IR bands has been discussed extensively by these authors.34,77 Briefly, the deficit and peak near 3700 cm-1 are a result of ethylene physisorbed on the OH groups of the silica support. 34,78 Adsorption on the silanol groups perturbs the stretching frequency of the OH groups, and thus, there is a mismatch in frequencies and bandwidth when the blank pellet is subtracted from the pellet with adsorbed ethylene to obtain the difference spectrum. The peaks at 3096, 3070, 3010, 2978, and 2884 cm-1 are assigned to νas(CH2), ν(CC) + δ(CH2), νs(CH2), νs(CH2), and 2δs(CH2), respectively.34 The deficit and peak near 2000 cm-1 are probably a result of the adsorption of residual CO from the vacuum line.Figure 5 Infrared spectra for ethylene adsorption on the Pt/SiO2 catalyst: 15 monolayer coverage at 173 K. The vertical bar corresponds to 0.04 AU.Although the peaks in the region from 3200 to 2600 cm-1 are distinct at high coverage (15 monolayers), at low coverage (ca. 0.3 monolayers) this spectral region is quite noisy; therefore, we will present results only for the spectral region from 1600 to 1300 cm-1. The spectral region from 1600 to 1300 cm-1 shows bands at 1440 and 1342 cm-1. The band near 1342 cm-1 is usually assigned to the δs(CH3) vibration mode of ethylidyne species.33,34 At low temperatures (100 K), however, this band has also been assigned to the adsorption of ethylene on silica, i.e., the δ(CH2) mode that is originally Raman active for gas-phase ethylene.34 The results obtained herein also suggest that this band can be attributed to molecularly adsorbed species on silica at low temperatures and to ethylidyne species at higher temperatures. This behavior will be discussed in greater detail below. The strong band at 1440 cm-1 in the spectrum can be assigned to ethylene adsorbed on silica. 79 The band at 1616 cm-1 in this spectrum originates from the Raman ν(CC) mode for gaseous ethylene at 1624 cm-1, which becomes IR-active upon formation of multilayers of ethylene on the surface.34 Room-temperature spectra show bands at 1508, 1428, and 1342 cm-1 that correspond to π-bonded ethylene, di-σ-bonded ethylene, and ethylidyne species, respectively, and these spectra are consistent with previous results on Pt/SiO2. 80 The band at 1408 cm-1 can be attributed to the asymmetric CH3 bend of ethylidyne species.77 (3) Ethylene Adsorption on Pt/SiO2. Figure 6 shows microcalorimetric results for the adsorption of ethylene on Pt/SiO2 at various temperatures. The corresponding IR spectra are shown in Figure 7. These IR spectra were collected for an ethylene coverage on the catalyst corresponding to ca. 0.3 monolayers. Adsorption at room temperature gave an initial heat of 157 kJ/mol, which is in agreement with the value of 160 kJ/mol for the heat of ethylene adsorption on Pt powder62 and of 150 kJ/mol for 1.2 wt % Pt/SiO27 and for Pt film. 81 The heat of adsorption decreased with coverage up to about 35 μmol/g, after which the heat increased and passed though a maximum with coverage. This apparent maximum in the heat of adsorption is caused by the evolution of gaseous ethane from the reaction of ethylene with surface hydrogen atoms that were formed at lower coverages from the dissociative adsorption of ethylene.62 The IR spectrum in Figure 7a shows that the main species (i.e., the band at 1342 cm-1) formed upon exposure of the Pt/SiO2 catalyst to ethylene at room temperature is the ethylidyne species. This formation of ethylidyne species is accompanied by the formation of surface hydrogen atoms, as shown in eq 1, that can participate at higher coverages in the hydrogenation of adsorbed ethylene to ethane.Figure 6 Differential heat versus adsorbate coverage for adsorption of ethylene on Pt/SiO2 at room temperature (·), 263 K (), 233 K (), 203 K (), and 173 K ().Figure 7 Infrared spectra for ethylene adsorption on Pt/SiO2 catalyst at (a) room temperature, (b) 263 K, (c) 233 K, (c) 233 K followed by warming to room temperature, (d) 203 K, and (e) 173 K. All spectra were collected at about 0.3 monolayer ethylene coverage. The vertical bar corresponds to 0.002 AU.The adsorption of ethylene at 203 K on the 10% Pt/SiO2 yielded a plot of heat versus coverage that contained two plateaus with heats of 125 and 35 kJ/mol, and these values correspond to the adsorption of ethylene on platinum and silica, respectively. At 173 K, the initial heat of ethylene adsorption was also about 125 kJ/mol, but it decreased monotonically until it reached 35 kJ/mol without forming an initial plateau. These results suggest that ethylene does not equilibrate with the sample at 173 K and that the measured heat of adsorption has contributions from adsorption on platinum as well as on silica at all ethylene coverages. The IR spectroscopy results confirm this behavior. Specifically, Figure 7e shows two bands at 1442 and 1340 cm-1, which belong to molecularly adsorbed ethylene on silica at 173 K, even at the low ethylene coverage of 0.3 monolayers. In contrast, the IR spectrum of Figure 7d, which was collected at 203 K, does not show evidence of ethylene adsorbed on silica, indicating that all of the adsorbed ethylene is associated with Pt at these conditions.Figure 6 shows that the plots of heat versus coverage for ethylene adsorption at 203 and 233 K are identical and have the same initial heat of 125 kJ/mol as that at 173 K. Therefore, it is likely that the same adsorbed ethylene species are formed upon adsorption on Pt at 173, 203, and 233 K. This conclusion is supported by the infrared spectra of Figure 7ce, which revealed that π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species are present on the Pt/SiO2 catalyst at temperatures from 173 to 233 K. However, when the temperature was increased to 263 K, the initial heat of ethylene adsorption on Pt/SiO2 increased to 135 kJ/mol (see Figure 6) and ethylidyne species were evident in the IR spectrum (see Figure 7b). These results suggest that the increase in the heat of adsorption is due to the formation of ethylidyne species at 263 K. In addition, π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species were present at 263 K. Figure 7c shows that the molecularly adsorbed ethylene species formed on platinum at 233 K can be converted into ethylidyne species when the sample is warmed to room temperature.It should be noted that at the low adsorption temperatures employed in this study, strongly adsorbed (ΔHads > 90 kJ/mol) ethylene species do not equilibrate with the platinum surface. Thus, the differential heats measured for ethylene represent average heats of adsorption over a range of surface coverages. (4) Ethylene Adsorption on 7Pt/Sn/SiO2. Microcalorimetric data for adsorption of ethylene on the 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst at different temperatures are shown in Figure 8, with the corresponding IR spectra shown in Figure 9. Ethylene adsorbs only on Pt and not on Sn.29 At room temperature, the initial heat of ethylene adsorption on the 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst was equal to 135 kJ/mol, which is lower than the value of 157 kJ/mol for Pt/SiO2. The shape of the plot of heat versus coverage for the 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst, however, is similar to the curve for the Pt/SiO2 catalyst; i.e., both plots show apparent maxima. Therefore, the microcalorimetric data suggest that ethylidyne species are formed at room temperature on the 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst. This conclusion is supported by the IR spectrum of Figure 9a, which shows that π-bonded ethylene, di-σ-bonded ethylene, and ethylidyne species exist on the surface of this catalyst at room temperature. Note that the band at 1408 cm-1 for ethylidyne species appears as a shoulder for the 1426 cm-1 band. Comparison of Figures 7a and 9a shows that the relative amount of ethylidyne species is smaller for the 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst than for Pt/SiO2. Therefore, the lower heat of adsorption on the 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst is at least partially attributed to different species being formed.Figure 8 Differential heat versus adsorbate coverage for adsorption of ethylene on 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 at room temperature (·), 263 K (), 233 K (), and 203 K ().Figure 9 Infrared spectra for ethylene adsorption on 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst at (a) room temperature, (b) 263 K, (c) 233 K, and (d) 203 K. All spectra were collected at about 0.3 monolayer ethylene coverage. The vertical bar corresponds to 0.002 AU.The microcalorimetric plots of heat versus coverage for ethylene adsorption on the 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst at 203 and 233 K exhibit two plateaus with heats of 106 and 35 kJ/mol, where the first plateau corresponds to adsorption on Pt and the second plateau to adsorption on silica. The IR spectra of Figure 9c,d show that π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species are formed on the 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst at these temperatures. The lower heat of 106 kJ/mol observed on 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 at these temperatures, compared to value of 125 kJ/mol on Pt/SiO2, may be related to the lower relative concentration of di-σ-bonded species on the 7Pt/Sn/SiO2, according to the IR spectra of Figures 7c,d and 9c,d. In addition, the presence of tin may weaken the adsorption of π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species.The adsorption of ethylene on the 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 at 263 K produced a higher initial heat (113 kJ/mol) than the value of 106 kJ/mol observed at the lower temperatures. This higher heat suggests that ethylidyne species are formed on 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 at 263 K, and this behavior is confirmed by the IR spectrum shown in Figure 9b. It should be noted, however, that the relative amount of ethylidyne species on 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 at 263 K is lower than on the Pt/SiO2 catalyst at the same temperature. (5) Ethylene Adsorption on 3Pt/Sn/SiO2. The results of microcalorimetric measurements of ethylene adsorption on the 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst at different temperatures are shown in Figure 10, and the corresponding IR spectra are shown in Figure 11. Ethylene adsorption at room temperature on the 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 sample gives an initial heat of 129 kJ/mol. The IR spectrum shows the formation of only a small amount of ethylidyne species on this catalyst at room temperature.Figure 10 Differential heat versus adsorbate coverage for adsorption of ethylene on 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 at room temperature (·), 263 K (), 233 K (), and 203 K ().Figure 11 Infrared spectra for ethylene adsorption on 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst at (a) room temperature, (b) 273 K, (c) 268 K, (d) 263 K, (e) 233 K, and (f) 203 K. All spectra were collected at about 0.5 monolayer ethylene coverage. The vertical bar corresponds to 0.002 AU.The microcalorimetric plots for ethylene adsorption on the 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst at 203 and 233 K are similar, showing two plateaus with heats of 98 and 35 kJ/mol. The IR spectra in Figure 11e,f show that π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species are formed at each of these temperatures. These species and their relative coverages are similar to those on the 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst; however, the initial heat of ethylene adsorption is lower on 3Pt/Sn/SiO2, which suggests that the presence of tin may weaken the adsorption of π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species.The adsorption of ethylene on the 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 at 263 K produced an initial heat of 108 kJ/mol, higher than the value of 98 kJ/mol observed at lower temperatures. This result can be attributed to the formation of a small amount of ethylidyne species. Although the IR spectrum of Figure 11d collected at 263 K does not show any indication of ethylidyne species, these ethylidyne species are evident in the spectrum collected at 268 K (Figure 11c), indicating that the formation of ethylidyne species is sensitive to temperatures near 263 K for the 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst. More generally, our results show that ethylidyne species do not form to significant extents on Pt/SiO2 and Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalysts at temperatures lower than 233 K, whereas these species begin to form at temperatures near 263 K. Moreover, the relative amounts of ethylidyne species formed decrease as the tin content of the catalyst is increased. (6) Ethylene Adsorption on 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2. The results for the ethylene adsorption on 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2 are shown in Figure 12. This figure compares the heats of adsorption of ethylene on each catalyst at room temperature, and a summary of the initial heats of adsorption is given in Table 1. The initial heat of adsorption on the 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2 catalyst is 94 kJ/mol, which is significantly lower than the values for the other catalysts. This catalyst did not adsorb a sufficient amount of ethylene for IR spectroscopic studies. By comparison of the initial heats and extrapolation of the results from the other catalysts, it is likely that the only surface species formed on the 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2 catalyst were π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species.Figure 12 Differential heat versus adsorbate coverage for adsorption of ethylene at room temperature on Pt/SiO2 (·), 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 (), 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 (), and 1Pt/2Sn/SiO2 (). (7) Quantum Chemical Calculations. Figure 13 shows π-bonded ethylene, di-σ-bonded ethylene, and ethylidyne species associated with Pt19 clusters. Replacement of the three-corner Pt atoms in the top layer by tin preserves the Pt adsorption sites for the three adsorbed species; therefore, this replacement of Pt by Sn atoms can be used to assess the importance of electronic effects on the bonding properties of Pt.We find that addition of Sn to Pt clusters does not significantly alter the structure of the adsorbed hydrocarbon species. This observation suggests that the experimentally observable vibrational frequencies for these adsorbed hydrocarbon species will also be unchanged by the addition of Sn to Pt. This conclusion is in agreement with the experimental results described in earlier sections where no frequency shift in the IR spectrum is observed upon the addition of Sn to Pt.The calculated energy changes for the formation of π-bonded ethylene, di-σ-bonded ethylene, and ethylidyne species from gaseous ethylene are summarized in Table 2 for the Pt19 and Pt16Sn3 clusters. Also shown in this table are the energy changes calculated for the formation of these species for fully optimized Pt10 clusters. 82 From the results of our microcalorimetric studies of ethylene adsorption on the Pt/SiO2 catalyst, we have estimated that the heat of formation of ethylidyne species and adsorbed hydrogen atoms is approximately 157 kJ/mol and the average heat of formation of π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species is 125 kJ/mol. Therefore, it appears that the calculated energy changes reported in Table 2 for the Pt19 cluster are lower than the experimental values. In addition, these values for the constrained Pt19 clusters are 3050 kJ/mol lower than those values for fully optimized Pt10 clusters. However, the calculated trend in the heats for different surface species is consistent with the experimental results, i.e., ethylidyne species (with coadsorbed H) > di-σ bonded ethylene > π-bonded ethylene.Figure 13 Ball and stick models of the structures used for DFT calculations: 10-atom cluster with (a) ethylidyne species and 19-atom cluster with (b) ethylidyne species; (c) di-σ bonded ethylene and (d) π-bonded ethylene; large open circle = Pt atom; large hatched circle = Pt or Sn atom; medium-filled circle = C atom; small open circle = H atom.The results of the quantum chemical calculations shown in Table 2 indicate that the presence of tin atoms weakens the interactions of π-bonded ethylene, di-σ-bonded ethylene, and ethylidyne species with the platinum ensembles. Importantly, the electronic effect of tin on the adsorptive properties of the neighboring Pt atoms is rather small for the π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species (17 and 29 kJ/mol, respectively), whereas the effect of tin is significantly larger (94 kJ/mol) for the bonding of ethylidyne species to Pt atoms. This effect of Sn for the constrained 19-atom metal clusters is also found for fully optimized Pt6Sn4 clusters. In particular, the heat of formation of ethylidyne species from ethylene is less exothermic by 91 kJ/mol on 3-fold hollow sites of Pt atoms in fully optimized Pt6Sn4 clusters compared to Pt10 clusters. Therefore, these calculations suggest that the formation of ethylidyne species should be significantly inhibited on Pt adsorption sites that are adjacent to Sn atoms.Table 2: Changes in Electronic Energies (kJ/mol) for Adsorption Calculated for π, Di-σ, and Ethylidyne Species on Pt19, Pt16Sn3, Pt1082, and Pt6Sn4 Clusters catalyst πspecies di-σspecies ethylidyne+1/2H2(g) 19-AtomClustera Pt19 71 116 94 Pt16Sn3 54 87 0 differenceofheat 17 29 94 10-AtomClusterb Pt10 103 149 109 Pt6Sn4 91 91 18 differenceofheat 12 58 91 aPtPt and PtSn distances are fixed at their bulk value of 2.77 Å.bPt and Sn atoms are allowed to relax by conducting optimization of the entire cluster.Table 3 shows the Mulliken populations of the 6s, 6p, and 5d orbitals on the three Pt atoms constituting the 3-fold hollow site for the formation of ethylidyne species. These calculations indicate that the populations of 6s, 6p, and 5d orbitals on the three Pt atoms increase by 0.28, 0.57, and 0.62 electrons when Sn is added to the 19-atom cluster. Upon formation of ethylidyne species on the Pt19 cluster, the population of the 6s orbitals on the three Pt atoms of the 3-fold hollow site remain nearly unchanged, the population of the 6p orbitals on the three Pt atoms increases by 0.77 electrons, and the population of the 5d orbitals on the three Pt atoms decreases by 0.48 electrons. These results demonstrate that the surface chemical bonds formed between ethylidyne species and Pt atoms involve the donation of electrons from ethylidyne species into Pt 6p orbitals and the back-donation of Pt 5d electrons to the ethylidyne species. Similar results were obtained from calculations using fully optimized 10-atom metal clusters, as shown in Table 3.Table 3: Mulliken Populations on Pt Atoms Involved in the Adsorption in 5d and 6sp Bands cluster Pt-6sa Pt-6pa Pt-5da 19-AtomClustersb Pt19 1.74 1.24 26.60 Pt16Sn3 2.02 1.81 27.22 Pt19CCH3 1.84 2.01 26.12 Pt16Sn3CCH3 2.27 2.04 26.52 10-AtomClustersc Pt10 1.91 1.36 26.67 Pt6Sn4 2.40 1.65 27.51 Pt10CCH3 2.14 1.72 26.32 Pt6Sn4CCH3 2.90 1.59 26.79 aThis population is the sum for the three Pt atoms comprising the 3-fold hollow site.bPtPt and PtSn distances are fixed at their bulk value of 2.77 Å.cPt and Sn atoms are allowed to relax by conducting optimization of the entire cluster.Our slab calculations show that replacing a Pt atom by a Sn atom weakens the interaction of methylidyne species by 30 kJ/mol, while replacing two Pt atoms by two Sn atoms weakens the interaction by 130 kJ/mol. This result is consistent with the weakening of ethylidyne species with Pt predicted by the cluster calculations.To summarize our results, IR spectra indicate that π -bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species form on our supported Pt/SiO2 and PtSn/SiO2 catalysts at low temperatures (<233 K). At temperatures near 263 K, ethylidyne species begin to form, and correspondingly, the heat of adsorption measured in the microcalorimeter increases with the formation of these more strongly bound species. Modification of Pt by alloying with Sn suppresses the formation of ethylidyne species. At conditions where the same species form on Pt and Pt/Sn catalysts, the heat of adsorption is lower on the Pt/Sn catalysts (see Figure 14). Quantum calculations indicate that Sn affects the electronic structure of Pt by donating electrons to Pt.Figure 14 Differential heat versus adsorbate coverage for adsorption of ethylene at 203 K on Pt/SiO2 (·), 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 (), and 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 ().Discussion The nature of the adsorbed species that form on Pt after exposure to ethylene is dependent on the temperature and the structure of the surface.24,33 On our 6 wt % Pt/SiO2 catalyst, π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species were formed upon exposure to ethylene at temperatures below 233 K, and ethylidyne species began to form at temperatures near 263 K (see Figure 7). This behavior is consistent with results reported by De La Cruz and Sheppard24,33 for a 16 wt % Pt/SiO2 sample, with the exception that these authors also observed an additional species, di-σ*-bonded ethylene. They suggested that this species is formed because their catalyst has large (515 nm) particles, whereas the Pt particles on our Pt/SiO2 catalyst are smaller than 5 nm.The initial heat for adsorption of ethylene on Pt/SiO2 at room temperature is 157 kJ/mol (see Figure 6). Ethylidyne species are the predominant hydrocarbon species formed under these conditions, as shown by the IR spectrum in Figure 7a. Accordingly, the heat of 157 kJ/mol corresponds to the heat of formation of ethylidyne species and hydrogen atoms on the Pt surface, as expressed by eq 1. This value is in agreement with the value of 170 kJ/mol reported for the formation of ethylidyne species on a (2 × 1) Pt(110) surface57 and 174 kJ/mol for the formation of ethylidyne on Pt(111).59 In addition, Stuck et al.57 reported that the heat of formation of di-σ-bonded ethylene on Pt is 136 kJ/mol. In the present study, comparable amounts of π and di-σ species are formed on Pt/SiO2 at low temperatures (Figure 7ce). Therefore, our measured value of 125 kJ/mol at 203 K (see Figure 6) represents an average value of the heats of adsorption for these two species. Since this value is close to the heat measured by Stuck et al. for di-σ-bonded ethylene species, we conclude that the heats of adsorption of π-bonded ethylene and di-σ-bonded ethylene species may not be very different. If we use the value of 136 kJ/mol for the heat of formation of di-σ-bonded ethylene species, as suggested by Stuck et al.,57 then the π-bonded ethylene species on Pt would have a heat of formation of about 115 kJ/mol. This value agrees with a value of 120 kJ/mol for π-bonded ethylene on (2 × 1) Pt(110).57 Temperature-programmed desorption has been used extensively in the literature to characterize the adsorption of ethylene on Pt and Pt/Sn catalysts.29,52,53,76,83-85 In agreement with the results of these TPD studies,29,52,53 we have found for our Pt/SiO2 and Pt/Sn/SiO2 that the heat of adsorption and the saturation coverage decrease with increasing tin content (see Table 1 and Figure 14). Paffett et al.53 adsorbed ethylene onto single crystals at 120 K, performed TPD experiments, and then estimated heats of desorption from the TPD maxima to be 71, 5963, and 4549 kJ/mol for the Pt(111), p(2 × 2) PtSn alloy, and (3 × 3)R30 PtSn alloy, respectively. A range of heats was reported for the PtSn alloy surfaces because the heat decreased with increasing ethylene coverage. This behavior is consistent with our microcalorimetric results at room temperature (see Figure 12). We note that the heats calculated from TPD spectra are lower than our values determined microcalorimetrically, and this difference may be caused by the assumptions required to extract heats from TPD measurements. However, the trends from both types of measurements generally agree that the addition of Sn to Pt weakens the interaction of the surface with ethylene. In contrast to the effects of Sn on Pt, the presence of bismuth atoms on Pt(111) has been shown to exhibit only a geometric effect on ethylene adsorption,76 since the TPD desorption temperature does not change but the ethylene uptake decreases upon addition of bismuth.Tsai et al.52 have used TPD to study the desorption of H2 after ethylene adsorption on Pt(111), a (3 × 3)R30 Sn/Pt(111) surface alloy that has no 3-fold hollow sites, and a p(2 × 2) Sn/Pt(111) surface alloy that has no adjacent 3-fold hollow sites. No H2 desorption was detected after ethylene adsorption at 100 K and upon heating to 800 K for the 3 surface alloy, and only a trace amount of H2 was detected for the (2 × 2) alloy surface. The authors suggested that the formation of adsorbed ethylidyne species and atomic hydrogen from ethylene requires two adjacent 3-fold hollow sites, i.e., one site to accommodate the ethylidyne species and one site for the hydrogen atom. In their studies, the presence of 25% surface Sn atoms suppressed >90% of the ethylidyne formation that occurs on Pt (111). Our experimental results are consistent with this possible geometric effect. In particular, it is well established that the surface of Pt/Sn alloy particles can be enriched with Sn, and so it is possible that our 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalyst on which the formation of ethylidyne species is suppressed at room temperature has few adjacent 3-fold Pt sites. However, comparison of the heats of adsorption (see Table 1 and Figure 14) for which the same species are adsorbed in similar ratios according to IR spectroscopy (compare Figures 7d, 9d, and 11f) shows that the heat of adsorption generally decreases as the tin content of the catalyst increases. In addition our quantum calculations indicate that Sn significantly weakens the bonding of ethylidyne species at 3-fold hollow sites (see Table 2). Thus, while the decrease in the number of 3-fold hollow sites composed of three adjacent Pt surface atoms upon the addition of tin may play an important role in decreasing the amount of ethylidyne species formed on the Pt/Sn/SiO2 samples at room temperature, our quantum chemical calculations also indicate that Sn exerts an electronic effect on the interaction of neighboring Pt atoms with ethylidyne species. Thus, it appears that Sn is a particularly effective agent for suppressing the formation of ethylidyne species on Pt, since the geometric and electronic effects work in the same direction.In closing, we speculate about the origin of the electronic interaction through which tin inhibits the formation of ethylidyne species on 3-fold hollow sites comprised of adjacent Pt surface atoms. As noted earlier, the Mulliken population analyses indicate that the formation of ethylidyne species on Pt involves electron donation from ethylidyne to 6sp orbitals on Pt, accompanied by back-donation from 5d orbitals on Pt to the ethylidyne species. Specifically, nearly 0.9 electrons are transferred to the 6sp orbitals of the three Pt atoms, and about 0.5 electrons are back-donated from Pt to the ethylidyne species on the Pt19 cluster. The addition of Sn to Pt leads to higher populations of the 6sp and 5d orbitals of Pt (by 0.85 and 0.62 electrons, respectively). In general, Pauli repulsion interactions between occupied levels are more important for bonding on high-coordination metal sites (such as 3-fold hollow sites involved in formation of ethylidyne species) than for bonding on lower coordination metal sites (such as atop and bridge sites involved in π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species, respectively). 86 Therefore, the higher electron density on the Pt atoms caused by donation of electrons from Sn should lead to more repulsive interactions for the formation of ethylidyne species than for the formation for π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species, as observed experimentally.Another result from the quantum chemical calculations is that the formation of ethylidyne species on Pt16Sn3 clusters causes nearly 0.5 electrons to be transferred to the 6sp orbitals of the three Pt atoms and about 0.7 electrons to be back-donated from Pt to the ethylidyne species. It is noteworthy that the extent of back-donation to ethylidyne species is significantly higher for Pt16Sn3 clusters (0.7 electrons) compared to Pt19 clusters (0.5 electrons). This difference is related to the higher population of the Pt 5d orbitals in the presence of Sn. In general, bonding interactions between ethylidyne species and Pt atoms involve the overlap of partially filled orbitals. The 5d orbitals of each Pt atom contain approximately 8.87 and 9.07 electrons in the Pt19 and Pt16Sn3 clusters, respectively. Therefore, electrons are transferred out of these highly filled 5d orbitals for effective overlap with ethylidyne species. Because the 5d orbitals are more fully occupied in Pt16Sn3 clusters compared to Pt19 clusters, the extent of back-donation from Pt to ethylidyne species is greater in Pt16Sn3 clusters. This greater extent of electron promotion to higher energy orbitals in the formation of ethylidyne species on Pt16Sn3 clusters leads to a weaker energy of adsorption.Finally, we note that it may be necessary for the geometric and electronic effects of an additive to work in the same direction for the additive to be most effective in the suppression of ethylidyne formation on Pt. Specifically, an agent that only functions by geometric effects that block 3-fold hollow sites comprised of three adjacent Pt atoms may not prevent the surface from reconstructing in the presence of ethylene to form these 3-fold hollow sites. However, an agent that functions by both geometric and electronic effects may not suffer from effects of possible surface reconstruction, since 3-fold hollow sites containing Pt atoms, which may be formed during reconstruction, would still exhibit weak interactions with ethylidyne species.Conclusions The combination of microcalorimetric and in situ infrared spectroscopic measurements for the adsorption of ethylene on Pt/SiO2 and Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalysts at temperatures from 173 to 300 K provides information about the nature and energetics of adsorbed species on Pt and PtSn surfaces. At temperatures lower than 173 K, the adsorption of ethylene takes place on Pt and silica, resulting in an average adsorption heat for Pt/SiO2 samples. At temperatures higher than 203 K, ethylene molecules preferentially occupy Pt sites, leading to adsorption plateaus versus coverage corresponding to ethylene adsorption on Pt and silica surfaces, respectively.Adsorption of ethylene at temperatures from 173 to 233 K leads to the formation of π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species on the surface of the Pt/SiO2 catalyst. The heat of adsorption was measured to be about 125 kJ/mol under these conditions. Ethylidyne species began to form on the Pt/SiO2 catalyst at temperatures higher than 263 K. At room temperature, ethylidyne species were essentially the only species observed on the surface of Pt/SiO2, corresponding to an adsorption heat of 157 kJ/mol.The addition of tin to platinum decreases the extent of formation of ethylidyne species and thereby promotes the formation of π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species on Pt at room temperature. Adsorption of ethylene at 203 and 233 K on 7Pt/Sn/SiO2 and 3Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalysts leads to the formation of π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species, with the π-bonded species dominating. The heats of adsorption for formation of π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene on PtSn surfaces were found to be between 98 and 106 kJ/mol.At temperatures lower than 233 K, only π-bonded and di-σ bonded ethylene were present on all Pt and PtSn surfaces. In addition, the relative amounts of these two species do not change significantly with different Pt/Sn ratios employed in this study. Hence, the decrease in heat for ethylene adsorption at temperatures lower than 233 K with an increase of tin content of Pt/Sn/SiO2 catalysts suggests that tin weakens the interaction of molecular ethylene species with platinum.Quantum calculations employing DFT indicate that there is electron transfer from tin to platinum. These calculations show that the interaction of ethylidyne species with 3-fold hollow sites composed of three adjacent Pt atoms is significantly weakened by the presence of neighboring Sn atoms, while the interaction of π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species with atop sites and bridge sites composed of adjacent Pt atoms are only slightly weakened by the presence of neighboring Sn atoms. Mulliken population analyses indicate that the formation of ethylidyne species on Pt involves electron donation from ethylidyne to 6sp orbitals on Pt, accompanied by back-donation from 5d orbitals on Pt to the ethylidyne species. The higher electron density on the Pt atoms caused by donation of electrons from Sn leads to more repulsive interactions for the formation of ethylidyne species than for the formation for π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene species. In addition, the higher occupation of the Pt 5d orbitals in the presence of Sn requires more extensive back-donation of electrons from Pt to ethylidyne species. These effects cause a significant weakening of the interaction energy between ethylidyne and Pt atoms in the presence of Sn.Author Information Authors Jianyi Shen - Department of Chemical Engineering, University of WisconsinMadison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, and Department of Chemistry, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China Josephine M. Hill - Department of Chemical Engineering, University of WisconsinMadison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, and Department of Chemistry, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China Ramchandra M. Watwe - Department of Chemical Engineering, University of WisconsinMadison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, and Department of Chemistry, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China Brian E. Spiewak - Department of Chemical Engineering, University of WisconsinMadison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, and Department of Chemistry, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China James A. Dumesic - Department of Chemical Engineering, University of WisconsinMadison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, and Department of Chemistry, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 