<quotes>

[1] "A large fraction of the output of the chemical industry consists of products obtained by oxidation or oxidative dehydrogenation reactions catalyzed by oxides. 1-6 In most cases, the reaction proceeds through a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism. 7,8 The species to be oxidized reacts with the oxygen atoms at the surface of the oxide, creating oxygen vacancies. The reduced oxide is oxidized by reacting with gas-phase oxygen."
[2] "We use oxygen vacancy formation energy (OVFE) as a measure of how easily lattice oxygen may participate in the Mars and Van Krevelen mechanism for oxidation reactions."
[3] "We calculate with density functional theory how OVFE is affected when some of Zn atoms in ZnO(1010) surface layer are substituted by other metal dopants."
[4] "We find that Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease OVFE and prefer to be located at the surface of ZnO rather than in the bulk."
[5] "Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase OVFE."
[6] "Most of the dopants that increase OVFE prefer to substitute Zn atoms in the bulk, except for Ca, Sr, Ba, La, Ce, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Sn, and Pb, which prefer to substitute a Zn atom at the surface."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions by the reactant species interacting with the oxygen atoms at the oxide surface, creating oxygen vacancies. The reduced oxide is then oxidized by reacting with gas-phase oxygen. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is used as a measure of how easily lattice oxygen can participate in this mechanism. When some Zn atoms in the ZnO(1010) surface layer are substituted by other metal dopants, the oxygen vacancy formation energy (OVFE) is affected. Dopants like Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, Os, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, Au, and Cd decrease OVFE and prefer to be located at the surface of ZnO, making the oxide a better oxidant. On the other hand, dopants such as Mg, Ca, Sr, Ba, Sc, Y, La, Ti, Zr, Hf, Ce, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W, Mn, Re, Fe, Ru, Co, Al, Ga, Sn, and Pb increase OVFE, making the oxide less reactive for oxidation reactions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.马斯-范克雷维尔机制在氧化物催化氧化反应中通过反应物与氧化物表面的氧原子相互作用，形成氧空位来运作。然后，还原的氧化物通过与气相氧反应而被氧化。形成氧空位所需的能量（ΔEv）被用作衡量晶格氧参与该机制的容易程度的指标。当ZnO(1010)表面层中的一些Zn原子被其他金属掺杂剂取代时，氧空位形成能（OVFE）受到影响。像Li、Na、K、Rb、Cs、Os、Rh、Ir、Ni、Pd、Pt、Cu、Ag、Au和Cd这样的掺杂剂降低了OVFE，并倾向于位于ZnO的表面，使氧化物成为更好的氧化剂。另一方面，像Mg、Ca、Sr、Ba、Sc、Y、La、Ti、Zr、Hf、Ce、V、Nb、Ta、Cr、Mo、W、Mn、Re、Fe、Ru、Co、Al、Ga、Sn和Pb这样的掺杂剂增加了OVFE，使氧化物对氧化反应的反应性降低。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
