<quotes>
[1] "The demand of these building blocks has increased steadily over the last years, all major markets registering a positive growth in demand and production in recent years with the exception of the Eurozone, due to the effects of the recent economic downturn."
[2] "As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas."
[3] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[4] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[5] "A number of factors including the high-energy demands of these processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies."
[6] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[7] "The global demand of propylene was 103 million tons that year and is expected to increase by 45% on a yearly basis."
[8] "Literally dozens of new installations have been planned or are already under construction, amounting to an additional 14 million tons of propylene to be produced annually by 2018."
[9] "For example, in 2007 less than 3% of propylene was produced by on-purpose techniques, while FCC and steam cracking accounted for the bulk of the propylene produced."
[10] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[11] "A Catofin installation generally consists of 58 parallel adiabatic fixed bed reactors containing a chromiaalumina catalyst."
[12] "A schematic representation is shown in Figure 3."
[13] "The catalyst remains in use for 23 years, and the progressive loss in activity with increasing time-on-stream is counteracted by gradual increases in temperature to afford a constant dehydrogenation activity throughout the entire catalyst life span."
[14] "Moreover, fuel gas is added to the reactor during the regeneration step to generate supplementary heat, (47) and inert material is added to the catalyst bed to increase its heat storage capacity."
[15] "Moreover, these spinels also curtail the sintering of platinum due to a strong metalsupport interaction."
[16] "The authors suggest that in the presence of K, zeolite L can stabilize small PtSn particles in the micropores of the support."
[17] "The authors claim that the replacement of the framework Al3+ for Fe3+ ions is essential for the Pt precursor to anchor inside the 10-member ring zeolite channels, which in turn is necessary to obtain subnanometric Pt clusters after reduction."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The demand for propylene has increased steadily, with all major markets experiencing positive growth except for the Eurozone due to economic downturn.
2. Shale gas deposits contain ethane and propane, which are separated from natural gas.
3. Propane dehydrogenation profitability relies heavily on the price gap between propane and propylene.
4. Increased demand from the automotive industry and decreased naphtha supply have led to sharp increases in butadiene prices.
5. Various factors such as high energy demands, low selectivity, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices drive the petrochemical industry to seek more economical feedstocks and efficient conversion technologies.
6. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations has occurred in the US due to the abundance and low cost of ethane.
7. The global demand for propylene is expected to grow by 45% annually.
8. Dozens of new propylene production installations are planned or under construction, adding an extra 14 million tons of propylene production by 2018.
9. In 2007, less than 3% of propylene was produced by on-purpose techniques, while FCC and steam cracking accounted for most of the production.
10. The number of new PDH installations is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years, with many installations already under construction.
11. A Catofin installation consists of 58 parallel adiabatic fixed bed reactors with a chromiaalumina catalyst.
12. A schematic representation of a Catofin unit is shown.
13. The catalyst in a Catofin unit is used for 23 years, with its activity maintained by gradual temperature increases.
14. Fuel gas is added during regeneration to provide supplementary heat, and inert material is added to increase heat storage capacity.
15. The use of spinels in catalysts curtails platinum sintering due to a strong metal-support interaction.
16. Zeolite L stabilizes small PtSn particles in micropores when potassium is present.
17. Replacement of framework Al3+ with Fe3+ ions allows the Pt precursor to anchor inside zeolite channels, leading to subnanometer Pt clusters after reduction.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 近年来，丙烯需求持续增长，所有主要市场的需求和产量均呈现正增长，除了欧元区，原因是近期经济衰退的影响。
2. 石油页岩气田含有乙烷和丙烷等天然气液体（NGL），这些可以很容易地从天然气中分离出来。
3. 丙烷脱氢的盈利能力在很大程度上取决于丙烷和丙烯的价格差距，当前市场条件非常有利。
4. 汽车行业的增加需求以及裂解原料供应减少导致丁二烯价格急剧上涨。
5. 多种因素，包括高能需求、低选择性、石油储量减少和油价上涨，促使石化行业寻找更经济的原料和更高效的转化技术。
6. 随着美国对廉价页岩气液体（特别是乙烷）的可用性提高，蒸汽裂解安装从基于石油的石脑油转向基于页岩气的乙烷，乙烷裂解厂正在建设中，而石脑油裂解厂则被拆除或改造。
7. 当年丙烯全球需求量为1.03亿吨，并预计每年增长45%。
8. 数十家新的丙烯生产装置正在规划或已开始建设，到2018年将额外增加1400万吨丙烯年产量。
9. 2007年，只有不到3%的丙烯通过特定方法生产，而催化裂化和蒸汽裂解占大部分生产量。
10. 预计未来几年新PDH装置的数量将显著增加，许多装置已经处于建设中。
11. 一个Catofin装置由58个并联的绝热固定床反应器组成，内含氧化铝催化剂。
12. 显示Catofin单元的示意图。
13. 在Catofin单元中使用的催化剂可使用23年，其活性通过逐渐提高温度得到维持。
14. 再生期间添加燃料气体以提供额外热量，同时添加惰性材料以增加热存储能力。
15. 使用磁性材料可以抑制铂的聚集，因为它们与支持物之间存在强大的相互作用。
16. 当钾存在时，石英L能够稳定小的PtSn颗粒在支撑体的微孔中。
17. 框架中的Al3+替换为Fe3+离子对于Pt前体锚定在具有10个环的沸石通道中至关重要，这使得在还原后获得亚纳米级的Pt簇成为可能。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
