Bimetallic effects in the hydrodeoxygenation of meta-cresol on γ-Al2O3 supported Pt–Ni and Pt–Co catalysts
The hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) of meta-cresol, a typical phenolic compound in bio-oils, is investigated in the vapor-phase on γ-Al2O3-supported Pt catalysts at near atmospheric hydrogen pressure. The HDO reaction yields two major hydrocarbons: toluene and methylcyclohexane. The deoxygenation of meta-cresol proceeds through two consecutive steps: hydrogenation of the aromatic ring on the Pt metal followed by dehydration reactions of the produced alcohol intermediates on the alumina support. Phenolic ring saturation is proposed to be slower than its sequential dehydration steps on Pt/γ-Al2O3. This is in a good agreement with the higher selectivity of toluene compared to that of the hydrogenated cyclic hydrocarbon, methylcyclohexane, because toluene formation requires fewer ring hydrogenation steps than its counterpart. The additions of Co and Ni into Pt not only improve the overall HDO conversion, but also modify the product distribution. The enhancement in the overall HDO activity is related to the better hydrogenation activity of bimetallic Pt–Co and Pt–Ni catalysts and the generation of additional sites for alcohol dehydration. Consequently, more saturated cyclic hydrocarbon product, methylcyclohexane, is observed on bimetallic catalysts with respect to the monometallic Pt catalyst.
1 Introduction
The tar residue from the pyrolysis of lignin fractions of biomass contains a large fraction of phenolic compounds.1–3 Because of their carbon ring structure, these molecules can be upgraded into renewable gasoline additives if they are hydrodeoxygenated (HDO) to aromatic or naphthenic hydrocarbons.4 A number of approaches have been proposed for the HDO of lignin-based phenolics.5 For instance, these compounds can be co-fed with different petroleum cuts over hydrotreating catalysts and under typical hydrotreating industrial operating conditions. Traditional hydrotreating catalysts, such as sulfidied CoMo and NiMo, are effective in removing the oxygen atoms from phenolics.6–8 High yields of aromatic, unsaturated and saturated naphthenic products are produced. Hydrotreating of phenolics has been suggested to follow two distinct pathways: direct HDO with aromatic carbon–oxygen bond scission and indirect HDO that starts with ring hydrogenation followed by dehydration reactions.6 The drawback of this treatment is that the presence of highly oxygenated phenolics in the gas oil inhibits important hydrotreating reactions such as HDS and HDN.9 To overcome this problem, the separate upgrading process of bio-oil has to be considered.
Although a few reports have investigated conventional hydrotreating catalysts for the separate treatment of bio-oil fractions, more attention has been given to noble metal catalysts that favor milder operating conditions.10,11 In this case the HDO reactions of the phenolics can be carried out in either aqueous, trickle bed or vapor phase. For instance, Lercher et al. have reported that the combination of 5% Pd/C and a mineral acid (H3PO4) in aqueous solution is an efficient bifunctional catalyst for one-pot HDO of phenolic monomers.12 Meanwhile, Jones et al. have shown that coupling Pt with HY zeolite not only eliminated oxygen from phenol effectively but also produced hydrocarbons with appropriate molecular weights for fuel applications.13
Noble metals generally exhibit higher hydrogenation rates than conventional hydrotreating catalysts and the required reaction conditions are less severe,14 leading to the conclusion that the direct deoxygenation of phenolics is not an important reaction channel on these catalysts. In fact, the elimination of oxygen occurs mostly through two consecutive steps: hydrogenation of the aromatic ring on the metal followed by dehydration of the formed alcohols on an acid support. Ketones can also be produced by the tautomerization of enol intermediates formed upon partial hydrogenation of meta-cresol. However, these species are then readily hydrogenated to the alcohols.15
One alternative to enhance the efficiency of catalysts for the HDO reaction is to improve the hydrogenation rates by engineering the metal function in the catalysts. Alloying these precious metals with some transition metals could achieve this objective. Chen and coworkers have demonstrated that bimetallic catalysts formed using Pt and 3d metals outperform monometallic Pt in hydrogenation reactions of unsaturated cyclic, diene and aromatic hydrocarbons.16,17 For example, supported bimetallic Pt–Ni and Pt–Co catalysts exhibit higher hydrogenation rates than the monometallic Pt catalyst for benzene and 1,4-cyclohexadiene.18 The enhancement in hydrogenation rates is explained by the presence of the Pt-terminated catalyst configurations in the bimetallic catalysts. According to DFT calculations, these Pt-terminated surfaces bond hydrogen and hydrocarbon adsorbates more weakly than monometallic Pt surfaces, leading to optimized binding energies that are responsible for higher rates of hydrogenation.
In this paper we investigate the use of bimetallic nanoparticles on alumina supports to engineer better bifunctional catalysts for HDO of phenolic monomers. The main focus is bimetallic catalysts since they exhibit superior activity in aromatic hydrogenation, one of the critical steps required for removing oxygen atoms from phenolics. meta-Cresol (3-methylphenol) is used as a representative phenolic compound. The reaction is investigated in the vapor phase to minimize transport and water issues associated with other reaction conditions.19–21 The results illustrate that γ-Al2O3-supported Pt–Ni and Pt–Co metal catalysts not only show significant improvement in the HDO reaction rates but also change the product selectivity toward saturated hydrocarbons. These observations can be explained in terms of two separate effects by the introduction of Co and Ni: these metals simultaneously enhance the aromatic hydrogenation rate and create additional active (acid) sites for oxygen elimination via dehydration.
2 Experimental
2.1 Catalyst synthesis
Catalysts were prepared by incipient wetness impregnation of a γ-Al2O3 support (Alfa-Aesar, 87 m2 g−1) with aqueous solutions containing metal precursors, platinum(ii) tetra-amine nitrate, cobalt nitrate, and nickel nitrate. Catalysts with nominal weight loadings of 1.7 wt% Pt (Pt/Al2O3), 5.0 wt % Ni (Ni/Al2O3), 5.0 wt % Co (Co/Al2O3), 1.7 wt% Pt + 5.0 wt% Co (Pt–Co/Al2O3), and 1.7 wt% Pt + 5.0 wt% Ni (Pt–Ni/Al2O3) were synthesized. After impregnation, the precursor-loaded supports were dried at 373 K for 10 h, and then calcined at 563 K for 2 h in air. After calcination, catalysts were ground to a fine powder and pressed into pellets. These pellets were then crushed and sieved to give particles 40–60 mesh in size.
2.2 Sample characterization
CO chemisorption and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) were used to characterize the catalysts. The detailed procedures for these two experiments were described in a previous publication.18Elemental analysis of five catalyst samples was performed at the Soil Testing Program facility at the University of Delaware.
Temperature programmed reduction (TPR) in H2 was carried out using an Altamira AM-200ip instrument. Samples were first dried in Ar at 393 K for 1 h. The temperature was then reduced to 303 K. 10% H2 in Ar was flowed over the catalyst sample as the temperature was ramped from 303 K to 1173 K at a heating rate of 10 K min−1. The consumption of H2 during catalystreduction was monitored using a thermal conductivity detector (TCD).
Reaction rates, conversion and selectivity of the catalysts were measured in a packed bed flow reactor, which was equipped with mass flow controllers for controlling feeds of N2 and H2 gases, and a syringe pump for the continuous injection of liquid feeds. All tubing downstream from the point of feed injection was heated to 533 K to ensure vaporization and mixing of the reactants and products within the gas phase. The catalyst bed temperature was measured by a thermocouple welded to the stainless steel reactor and maintained using an electric tube furnace equipped with a temperature controller. Prior to catalytic reactions, the samples were reduced in 50% H2 in N2 at a flow rate of 25 cm3 min−1 at 723 K for 1 h. The catalyst bed was then cooled to the desired reaction temperature, 533 K, and the flows of organic species were initiated using liquid flow rates of 0.05 mL h−1 for meta-cresol and 0.06 mL h−1 for 3-methylcyclohexanol and 4-methylcyclohexene. The effluent from the reactor was sampled using a Shimadzu GC-2010 equipped with a DB-Wax column from Agilent and a flame ionization detector (FID) for quantification of products. Identification of products was carried out by liquid product injections to Shimadzu GCMS-QP5000 and verified with organic standards. All of the catalyst activity comparisons were achieved on the same basis of W/F, which was calculated by taking the amount of catalyst divided by the molar flow rate of organic feeds.
3 Results
3.1 Catalyst characterization
The compositions and CO uptakes of five tested catalysts are tabulated in Table 1. As expected, the actual compositions of the metals are slightly lower than the nominal weight percentages. For monometallic catalysts, the CO uptake of monometallic Pt/Al2O3 is similar to that of Ni/Al2O3 and approximately twice as that of Co/Al2O3, although the weight loadings of both Co and Ni are higher than that of Pt (Table 1). This is because Co and Ni are more difficult to reduce than Pt and may not be fully reduced after the pretreatment conditions. In addition, Co and Ni interact strongly with the alumina support, forming metal aluminate surface species that are stable under reducing conditions.22 Alloying Pt with Co does not increase substantially the number of CO binding sites for the Pt–Co/Al2O3catalyst compared to Pt/Al2O3. However, introduction of Ni into Pt significantly increases CO uptake. Although the absolute CO uptake values are not identical to a set of catalysts prepared via a different method by Lonergan et al., the trend between monometallic and bimetallic catalysts is the same.18
Table 1 Composition, nomenclature, and CO chemisorption results of the tested alumina-supported catalysts
Catalysts Metal content (wt%) Nomenclature CO uptake (μmol CO g−1 of cat)
Pt M3d
5% Co/γ-Al2O3 — 5.1 Co/Al2O3 25 ± 2
5%Ni/γ-Al2O3 — 5.0 Ni/Al2O3 66 ± 4
1.7%Pt/γ-Al2O3 1.6 — Pt/Al2O3 53 ± 3
1.7%Pt–5.0% Co/γ-Al2O3 1.3 4.3 Pt–Co/Al2O3 58 ± 2
1.7%Pt–5.0% Ni/γ-Al2O3 1.5 4.9 Pt–Ni/Al2O3 120 ± 5
The TPR profiles of the five alumina-supported catalysts (Fig. 1) show that Pt is reduced at a temperature range of 400 K to 600 K. Compared to Pt, Co/Al2O3 and Ni/Al2O3catalysts are reduced at different temperatures, as indicated by the corresponding reduction peaks in Fig. 1. The peaks from 600 K to 900 K are broad possibly due to the interaction of both Co and Ni with the alumina support. A number of reports have indicated that highly dispersed layers of Co–aluminate are formed when Co atoms migrate into an alumina matrix.23,24 Others have reported, in contrast, that bulk Co3O4 forms on the alumina surface at high loadings of Co.23 They attributed the different reduction peaks to changes in the oxidation state of cobalt.23 The peaks with increasing temperature in Fig. 1 could result from the sequential reduction of Co3O4 to CoO, CoO to Co metal, and cobalt–aluminate surface species to Co metal.
Fig. 1 Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) profiles of different alumina-supported catalysts.
The alloying of Pt with Co and Ni catalysts lowers the reduction temperature. The broad peak of Co/Al2O3 from 600 K to 900 K is replaced by a narrow peak ranging from 500 K to 650 K on the Pt–Co catalyst. The TPR profile of the Pt–Ni/Al2O3catalyst contains only a single peak from 400 K to 550 K. It is possible that hydrogen atoms spilled over from Pt to 3d metals help reduce Co and Ni, as well as the bonding of Co and Ni with alumina.25 This was previously observed while doping other noble metals such as Ru or Re to monometallic Co or Ni catalysts.26 Although Pt facilitates the reduction of Co and Ni in the bimetallic catalysts and all of the reduction peaks appear before the experimental reduction temperature, 723 K, the samples were not completely reduced based on the amount of hydrogen consumed. A small fraction of the metals, most likely Co or Ni, are still present in oxide forms or ‘fixed’ in the alumina network. This observation is in agreement with results obtained from supported Pt–Co catalysts reported by Lu et al.16
EXAFS measurements and analysis were carried out on monometallic Pt/Al2O3 and the two bimetallic Pt–Co/Al2O3 and Pt–Ni/Al2O3catalysts to confirm the formation of bimetallic species and quantify the extent of bimetallic bond formation. The details of the fitting procedure and parameters are reported elsewhere.18Table 2 displays the results obtained from the Pt LIII-edge fittings of the three catalysts. The bond distances between the neighboring atoms in the bulk are 2.51 Å (Co–Co), 2.49 Å (Ni–Ni), and 2.75 Å (Pt–Pt). If the metals in Pt–Co/Al2O3 and Pt–Ni/Al2O3 exist as monometallic nanoparticles, which range from 1–4 nm based on TEM measurements, their first nearest neighbor distance would be similar or slightly smaller than the bulk distance. When the metals form alloys, their Pt–Ni or Pt–Co neighbor distance should be intermediate values between bulk distances of two parent metals. As tabulated in Table 2, the bond distances of Pt–Co and Pt–Ni are 2.56 Å and 2.55 Å, respectively; between Pt and 3d monometallic metal bulk distances. Additionally, Pt–Pt bond distances in the bimetallic samples are considerably shorter than on the monometallic Pt sample. This could be interpreted as the result of strain on the Pt atoms if the surfaces of the bimetallic catalyst particles are terminated by Pt atoms, as described previously.18
Table 2 Summary of Pt LIII-edge fitting for Pt/Al2O3 and bimetallic Pt–M3d/Al2O3catalysts
Catalysts Pt/Al2O3 Pt–Co/Al2O3 Pt–Ni/Al2O3
N(Pt–Pt) 6.2 ± 0.4 4.0 ± 0.8 2.1 ± 0.5
N(Pt–M3d) — 3.1 ± 0.4 6.7 ± 0.3
R(Pt–Pt), Å 2.75 ± 0.01 2.70 ± 0.1 2.67 ± 0.01
R(Pt–M3d), Å — 2.56 ± 0.1 2.55 ± 0.01
σ2(Pt–Pt), Å2 0.006 ± 0.001 0.008 ± 0.001 0.007 ± 0.001
σ2(Pt–M3d), Å2 — 0.006 ± 0.001 0.006 ± 0.001
The Pt–Ni and Pt–Co coordination number is a useful indicator of the extent of bimetallic formation. If the ratio of Pt–Ni or Pt–Co to Pt–Pt coordination numbers is greater than one, it implies that Pt atoms are most likely surrounded by more 3d metal atoms than Pt. This is observed on the Pt–Ni/Al2O3catalyst. This ratio is less than one on Pt–Co/Al2O3, suggesting that the first coordination shell around each Pt atoms is filled with more Pt atoms than Co.
3.2 Catalytic evaluation of supported catalysts
3.2.1 Reactions of meta-cresol on Pt/Al2O3 Under the reaction conditions investigated meta-cresol shows no reactivity over the bare γ-Al2O3 support. Therefore, the combination of metal and support functions of the catalysts is needed to catalyze the HDO of meta-cresol and to observe changes in reaction rate and selectivity. All the data points are obtained with 95% or better carbon balance. Fig. 2A presents the characteristic reactivity observed for Pt/Al2O3 and the reaction products of meta-cresol HDO. The first reliable data point is collected after 30 min time-on-stream (TOS) when the reaction reaches a quasi-steady state. At a W/F of 63.0 g of cat h mol−1, a meta-cresol conversion of 38% is achieved at 30 min TOS. Selectivity toward HDO hydrocarbon products is as high as 95%, and toluene formation dominated over the fully hydrogenated cyclic alkane, methylcyclohexane. Methylcyclohexene and methylcyclohexadiene isomers are present only in small concentrations compared to methylcyclohexane. For conciseness, they are listed together with methylcyclohexane. The cis- and trans-3-methylcyclohexanol isomers are lumped together as the third largest reaction product. The amount of 3-methylcyclohexanone detected is negligible. Sivasanker et al. and others have also found cyclic alcohols, but not cyclic ketones, as the major products in hydrogenation of phenol on the Pt/Al2O3catalyst.27 Other products result from side reactions such as demethylation and transalkylation of reactants and products forming phenol and heavy products (i.e. xylenols), respectively, although these have only small contributions to the product selectivity.
Fig. 2 Conversion of meta-cresol and product selectivity as function of time on stream at 63 g of cat h mol−1 W/F (A) and product yield (B) and selectivity (C) as a function of W/F at 30 min TOS on Pt/Al2O3catalyst. Reaction conditions: T = 533 K, PH2 = 50.5 kPa, and PN2 = 50.5 kPa. Hydrogen/meta-cresol ratio was 70.
The conversion of meta-cresol decreases with TOS as the Pt/Al2O3catalyst is deactivated (Fig. 2A). Selectivity to toluene decreases with increasing TOS, leading to a significant increase in the concentration of 3-methylcyclohexanol. Accumulation of the alcohol intermediate indicates that the active sites for alcohol dehydration can be deactivated with time on stream. Consequently, a slight increase in selectivity of its dehydrated product, methylcyclohexane, is observed. It seems that this increase is opposite to the mitigation of dehydration reaction of 3-methylcyclohexanol, a major route resulting to formation of methylcyclohexane. Thus, it might be possible that methylcyclohexane can be produced from the addition of hydrogen to toluene.28
To understand the HDO reaction network of meta-cresol, the evolution of the reaction products at 30 min TOS is followed as the size of catalyst bed increased. As depicted in Fig. 2B, while toluene and 3-methylcyclohexanol appear as the major products at very low W/F, the former is always present in higher concentrations. The yield of toluene increases monotonically with W/F and in contrast, the formation of 3-methylcyclohexanol goes through a maximum at intermediate W/F. Changes in selectivity in Fig. 2C coincide with the yield patterns seen in Fig. 2B. The slope of methylcyclohexane in Fig. 2B is almost zero at low W/F, and its yield follows closely the alcohol yield and keeps increasing after the maximum of 3-methylcyclohexanol curve. This dependence implies the transformation of 3-methylcyclohexanol intermediate to methylcyclohexane during the meta-cresol reaction. This suggests that meta-cresol needs to undergo a hydrogenation step to 3-methylcyclohexenol before being deoxygenated to produce methylcyclohexane. In fact, methylcyclohexane, together with toluene, is also observed as one of the major hydrocarbon products when feeding 3-methylcyclohexanol over Pt/Al2O3. Since at low W/F, the selectivity of toluene evolves independently from that of 3-methylcyclohexanol, it is quite possible that there is a separate pathway to convert meta-cresol to toluene that does not go through the 3-methylcyclohexanol intermediate. The fact that selectivity of toluene increases with W/F possibly implies that formation of toluene is inhibited by high meta-cresol concentration at low the W/F regime. Popov et al. have showed that phenolic compounds dissociatively absorb on alumina to form phenate species, whose amount corresponds to the Lewis acidity of alumina. Consequently, dehydration of the unsaturated alcohol to toluene is likely to be suppressed by this inhibition effect.29 Combination of the conversion of formed 3-methylcyclohexanol back to toluene and a weakened inhibition effect as meta-cresol is consumed can give rise to toluene in the high W/F regime.
3.2.2 Activity and selectivity of bimetallic Pt–Co/Al2O3catalysts in meta-cresol reaction Bimetallic catalysts show faster hydrogenation rates compared to the monometallic Pt catalyst.18 Since hydrogenation of meta-cresol plays an important role in the HDO of this phenolic compound, it is expected that replacing Pt/Al2O3 with the two bimetallic Pt–Co/Al2O3 and Pt–Ni/Al2O3catalysts should improve conversion. The conversions of 3-methylphenol over the three catalysts, together with Co/Al2O3 and Ni/Al2O3catalysts at the same conditions, are compared in Fig. 3. The bimetallic catalysts show higher HDO activities than the monometallic catalysts. Among the five catalysts, Co/Al2O3 exhibits the lowest rate of HDO reaction. According to TPR, there are cobalt metal active sites present after the catalyst pretreatment. However, Co metal is not active for hydrogenation of phenolic compounds possibly for the same reason that it has low activity in aromatic hydrogenation.16 The Ni/Al2O3catalyst is intermediate between the Co/Al2O3 and the Pt/Al2O3catalysts. The enhancement in meta-cresol reaction rate on Pt–Co/Al2O3 is substantially higher than the sum of activities of both parent catalysts. However, this is not the case with the Pt–Ni/Al2O3catalyst. Since both Pt and Ni are active for hydrogenation, one can argue that the activity of the bimetallic catalyst is the sum of the contributions of the two parent catalysts. In fact, this argument is consistent with the CO uptake of the Pt–Ni/Al2O3catalyst, showing that the number of metal active sites is close to the sum of CO uptake values of the two monometallic catalysts.
Fig. 3 Activity of alumina-supported monometallic Pt and bimetallic Pt–M3d (M = Co, Ni) catalysts in meta-cresol reactions. Reaction conditions: T = 533 K, TOS = 30 min, PH2 = 50.5 kPa, PN2 = 50.5 kPa, and W/F = 63 g of cat h mol−1. Hydrogen/meta-cresol ratio was 70.
Further insights can be obtained by following the product distribution of the bimetallic versus the monometallic catalysts. Since product distribution is sensitive to the level of conversion, Table 3 compares the selectivity for Ni/Al2O3, Pt/Al2O3, Pt–Co/Al2O3 and Pt–Ni/Al2O3catalysts at the same 30% conversion of the feed. The distinct feature of this table is that the product selectivity of bimetallic catalysts does not resemble that of the two monometallic catalysts. Pt–Co/Al2O3 and Pt–Ni/Al2O3catalysts produce more methylcyclohexane than the rest. The selectivity to methylcyclohexane on Pt–Co is even higher than on Pt–Ni. In fact, methylcyclohexane, not toluene, becomes the major product on the Pt–Co/Al2O3catalyst. In parallel with a high production rate of methylcyclohexane there is a reduction in the concentration of its oxygenated precursor, 3-methylcyclohexanol, on both bimetallic samples. This comparison indicates that 3-methylcyclohexanol is fully deoxygenated on Pt–Co/Al2O3 and Pt–Ni/Al2O3catalysts. It is possible that the two bimetallic catalysts contain additional sites for the dehydration of the alcohol intermediate. Another advantage of the bimetallic catalysts is that the formation of phenol and heavy byproducts was suppressed.
Table 3 Product selectivity at 30% meta-cresol conversion over selected catalysts. Reaction conditions: T = 533 K, TOS = 30 min, PH2 = 50.5 kPa, and PN2 = 50.5 kPa. Hydrogen/meta-cresol ratio was 70
Catalysts Methylcyclohexane Toluene 3-Methylcyclohexanol Phenol + others
Ni/Al2O3 27.2% 67.8% 1.4% 3.6%
Pt/Al2O3 11.1% 65.0% 20.1% 3.8%
Pt–Co/Al2O3 52.4% 44.7% 1.2% 1.8%
Pt–Ni/Al2O3 43.2% 51.0% 3.1% 2.6%
Since the overall HDO reaction of meta-cresol is complex, involving many intermediates and products as well as many elementary reaction steps, analysis at constant conversion is not sufficient to capture intrinsic differences between monometallic and bimetallic catalysts. To this end, we investigated the impact of varying conversion and the feeding of intermediate species on the selectivity of important products. Even though the addition of Co and Ni into Pt catalysts increases meta-cresol conversion, the Pt–Co/Al2O3catalyst appears to be the more attractive catalyst because the observed changes on Pt–Co are achieved on the basis of comparable metal surface area to that of the Pt/Al2O3catalyst. In what follows, this catalyst has been chosen for further investigation.
Fig. 4A summarizes changes in the conversion of meta-cresol and product selectivity on Pt–Co/Al2O3 as a function of TOS. After a reaction time of 4 hours, the initial activity drops 17%, compared to 30% on the Pt catalyst in Fig. 2A. The pattern of selectivity is consistent with the results displayed in Table 3. That is, instead of toluene, methylcyclohexane is the major HDO product on the Pt–Co/Al2O3catalyst. In addition, even on the deactivated catalyst, 3-methylcyclohexanol is always present at very small concentrations (see Fig. 4B and 4C). The selectivity of hydrocarbon products (toluene + methylcyclohexane) remains at above 90% over the course of the reaction. The Pt–Co/Al2O3catalyst is not only effective at the oxygen removal of the phenolic feed but also catalyzes oxygen elimination of the partially hydrogenated intermediates and 3-methylcyclohexanol.
Fig. 4 Conversion of meta-cresol and product selectivity as function of time on stream (A) and product yield (B) and selectivity (C) as a function of W/F at 30 min TOS on Pt–Co/Al2O3catalyst. Reaction conditions: T = 533 K, PH2 = 50.5 kPa, and PN2 = 50.5 kPa. Hydrogen/meta-cresol ratio = 70.
Since toluene is the aromatic HDO product and methylcyclohexane is the fully hydrogenated one, the calculated ratio of toluene to methylcyclohexane plotted in Fig. 5 can illustrate the distinct impact of monometallic versus bimetallic catalysts on the HDO product distribution. Since both ratios differ from the thermodynamic equilibrium ratio of toluene over methylcyclohexane at reaction conditions (Aspen Plus® gives the value of 2.5), the kinetics of formation starting from meta-cresol, not inter-hydro/dehydrogenation reactions, is mainly responsible for the changes in the ratio with conversion. At all conversion levels, there is much more toluene produced on Pt/Al2O3 than methylcyclohexane. This ratio increases with conversion. Meanwhile the ratio on bimetallic Pt–Co is nearly constant as a function of conversion.
Fig. 5 Toluene/methylcyclohexane ratio at varying meta-cresol conversions on Pt/Al2O3 and Pt–Co/Al2O3catalysts. Reaction conditions: T = 533 K, TOS = 30 min, PH2 = 50.5 kPa, and PN2 = 50.5 kPa. Hydrogen/meta-cresol ratio was 70.
Table 4 illustrates more clearly the difference in production rates of toluene and methylcyclohexane. To ensure the reaction rates kinetically determining, a test for external mass transfer was performed by lowering the meta-cresol flow rate at a constant W/F. The Weisz–Prater criterion was used to validate the independence from internal mass transfer limitations. Besides, all conversions are kept lower than 8.0% to approximate differential reactor conditions. In this case, rates are calculated based on the pseudo-first-order approximation. Regardless of the feed, rates for toluene formation are higher on Pt/Al2O3, while rates for methylcyclohexane are higher on Pt–Co/Al2O3. However, the absolute rates of formation of these two hydrocarbons are very sensitive to the type of feed. While meta-cresol is the original model molecule, 3-methylcyclohexanol and 4-methylcyclohexene were investigated as representative reaction intermediates. Here, 4-methylcyclohexene is one of the intermediate molecules in the dehydration reaction of 3-methylcyclohexanol to the final hydrocarbon products (toluene and methylcyclohexane). As shown in Table 4, the production rates of toluene and methylcyclohexane from 4-methylcyclohexene are much higher than those from meta-cresol and 3-methylcyclohexanol. Importantly, the rates are an order of magnitude slower with meta-cresol than with 3-methylcyclohexanol regardless of the catalyst tested. This means that the deoxygenation reactions of the hydrogenated phenolic compounds are much faster than the HDO of meta-cresol to the final hydrocarbon products. We conclude that the rate-limiting step of meta-cresol reaction on both monometallic Pt/Al2O3 and bimetallic Pt–Co/Al2O3catalysts is the reaction step prior to the deoxygenation step, which is most likely the hydrogenation reaction of meta-cresol to the alcohol intermediates. In addition, the ratio of toluene/methylcyclohexane computed for various feeds at differential reaction condition gives insights on the dominant reaction channels without the interference of side reactions happening further down the catalyst bed. On Pt–Co/Al2O3, all three ratios are almost equal regardless of the feeds. This possibly indicates that formation of toluene and methylcyclohexane from meta-cresol and 3-methylcyclohexanol go through a common methylcyclohexene intermediates (i.e.4-methylcyclohexene). Meanwhile, on Pt/Al2O3, toluene is most preferably formed from meta-cresol and least preferably from 4-methylcyclohexene. Consequently, routes leading to toluene from meta-cresol and 3-methylcyclohexanol are not likely to involve the unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbons or methylcyclohexene isomers.
Table 4 Rates of formation of toluene and methylcyclohexane in meta-cresol and 3-methylcyclohexanol, and 4-methylcyclohexene reactions on Pt/Al2O3 and Pt–Co/Al2O3catalysts. Reaction conditions: T = 533 K, TOS = 30 min, PH2 = 50.5 kPa, and PN2 = 50.5 kPa. Hydrogen/oxygenates ratio was 70
Feeds Rate of production (mol h−1 g−1 of cat)/catalysts Pt/Al2O3 Pt–Co/Al2O3
meta-Cresol Toluene 2.95 × 10−3 4.77 × 10−3
Methylcyclohexane 1.17 × 10−3 7.19 × 10−3
Toluene/methylcyclohexane 2.52 0.66
3-Methylcyclohexanol Toluene 4.26 × 10−2 4.87 × 10−2
Methylcyclohexane 2.50 × 10−2 8.57 × 10−2
Toluene/methylcyclohexane 1.70 0.57
4-Methylcyclohexene Toluene 0.14 0.32
Methylcyclohexane 0.26 0.61
Toluene/methylcyclohexane 0.54 0.52
4 Discussion
4.1 Network of hydrodeoxygenation of meta-cresol on Pt/Al2O3
Noble metal catalysts generally exhibit higher rates of hydrogenation than hydrotreating catalysts; therefore, the phenolic compounds are suggested to undergo some degree of ring hydrogenation first, followed by oxygen elimination. Lercher et al. have reported the use of 5.0% Pd/C in aqueous solution with mineral acid H3PO4 as an effective catalyst for HDO of phenol and other phenolic moieties. It is possible that the 5.0% Pd/C catalyst has a large concentration of metal sites for hydrogenation. Thus, under slightly elevated hydrogen pressure, hydrogenation of the phenolic ring does not stop at some partially hydrogenated ketones/alcohols, but continues all the way to saturated ketones/alcohols. Consequently, cyclic alkanes such as cyclohexane, from deoxygenation of those saturated ketones/alcohols, become the major hydrocarbon products on Pd catalysts.
Instead of using Pd catalysts, the present study has focused on alumina-supported Pt catalysts in the vapor-phase HDO of meta-cresol. On the 1.7% Pt/γ-Al2O3catalyst, out of two major HDO hydrocarbon products, the rate of toluene formation is significantly higher than that of methylcyclohexane. Based on the evolution of this aromatic molecule with W/F (Fig. 2B) the original reaction channel for forming toluene does not appear to go through a 3-methylcyclohexanol intermediate. Conversely, because the slope of the methylcyclohexane yield curve approaches zero at the low W/F region, its formation is likely to originate from the series of reactions associated with the major reaction intermediate, 3-methylcyclohexanol.
Sivasanker et al. have reported that in phenolhydrogenation, Pt catalysts are twice as active as Pd.27 In addition, Pt catalysts are better for the production of cyclohexanol while Pd catalysts favor cyclohexanone production. In the reaction of meta-cresol, the formed ketones might not directly contribute to the production of hydrocarbon products because they are promptly hydrogenated to the corresponding alcohols on Pt/γ-Al2O3. In fact, a distribution of partially and fully hydrogenated cyclic alcohols from the hydrogenation of meta-cresol on Pt catalysts is directly converted to the hydrocarbon products. Take, for instance, 3-methylcyclohexedienol isomers as an example of one of the partially hydrogenated alcohols from meta-cresol: since these compounds are not seen in the product mixture from the meta-cresol reaction, they might not be able to desorb from the catalyst surface but rather quickly get converted to toluene. This could be why the reaction channel to toluene is more effective than the reaction channel to its saturated counterpart. A network of the meta-cresol reactions on γ-Al2O3 supported Pt with the reaction steps discussed here is illustrated in Scheme 1. The reaction network illustrates that to promote the overall HDO of meta-cresol, good hydrogenation metal function to activate the phenolic ring is mandatory.
Scheme 1 Network of vapor-phase reaction of meta-cresol on alumina-supported Pt catalysts.
Besides the hydrogenation metal function, an effective HDO catalyst also needs an acid function to deoxygenate the cyclic alcohol intermediates. In this investigation, the γ-Al2O3 support acts as an excellent source of acid sites. The acidity of the alumina support has been proven by experimental and theoretical methods.30 The γ-Al2O3 support contains mostly Lewis and a few Brönsted acid sites.31 According to Iglesia et al., both sites can catalyze dehydration reactions of alcohols.32 Kwak et al. have also shown that particular (100) facets on alumina are responsible for dehydration of alcohols.33 In principle, deoxygenation of an alcohol can occur via metal-catalyzed C–O hydrogenolysis or acid-catalyzed dehydration reactions. In fact, it can be stated with confidence that the latter pathway is operative in the 3-methylcyclohexanol reaction because when 3-methylcyclohexanol is fed over the bare γ-Al2O3 support, they are easily deoxygenated to form methylcyclohexene isomers. In addition, when the acidity of the alumina support is suppressed via the incorporation of K into Pt/Al2O3, the dehydration reaction is impaired, leading to considerable accumulation of the alcohol intermediate.34 Confirmation of hydrogenolysis route still remains a challenge due to readiness of the dehydration route.
Besides dominant formation of an aromatic hydrocarbon, toluene, vapor-phase HDO reaction on the 1.7% Pt/γ-Al2O3catalyst bears one outstanding difference from the aqueous HDO reaction on the 5.0 %Pd/C catalyst. That is the hydrogenation steps of meta-cresol to cyclic alcohol intermediates are rate limiting in the former while dehydration of cyclic alkanols controls the overall HDO reaction in the latter. As summarized in Table 4, the production rates of hydrocarbons from the most stable alcohol intermediate, 3-methylcyclohexanol, are significantly higher than those from the original cresol. The dehydrogenation and hydrogenation reactions of 4-methylcyclohexene, one of the olefinic products from 3-methylcyclohexanol dehydration, are not slow either. This supports the conclusion that ring hydrogenation steps control the overall HDO of meta-cresol and consequently govern productions of the two main hydrocarbon products on Pt/γ-Al2O3.
4.2 γ-Al2O3 supported bimetallic Pt–Ni and Pt–Co catalysts for HDO of meta-cresol
On Pt/Al2O3, hydrogenation of the phenolic ring to alcohol intermediates is shown to be slower than the sequential deoxygenation of the intermediates to final hydrocarbon products in the overall HDO reactions. One way to design a better HDO catalyst is to improve the hydrogenation activity of the Pt catalyst. The bimetallic Pt–Ni and Pt–Co catalysts appear as a promising option. Previous studies have shown that bimetallic Pt–Ni and Pt–Co catalysts facilitate the hydrogenation activity in 1,3-butadiene, 1,4-cyclohexadiene, and benzene reactions compared to the monometallic Pt catalyst.16 In particular, the conversion rate of 1,4-cyclohexadiene normalized to the number of active sites is highest on bimetallic Pt–Co/Al2O3 than either Pt–Ni/Al2O3 or Pt/Al2O3.18 These results are consistent with surface science studies and DFT calculations that correlate binding energies of unsaturated hydrocarbons with hydrogenation activity. For example, the Pt–Co and Pt–Ni bimetallic surfaces are found to have optimal alkene binding energies, leading to higher hydrogenation activities than the monometallic Pt surface.18,35
When compared to the HDO reaction of meta-cresol, both Pt–Ni/Al2O3 and Pt–Co/Al2O3catalysts outperform Pt/Al2O3 in terms of the overall conversion. As depicted in Table 4, regardless of the feed, the production rates of both HDO hydrocarbon products are significantly higher for the Pt–Co/Al2O3catalyst than monometallic Pt. The distribution between these two products is also altered upon the formation of bimetallic catalysts. Methylcyclohexane and toluene are produced in comparable quantities on bimetallic Pt–Co. Although on this catalyst phenolic ring hydrogenation is still the most likely rate-limiting step in the meta-cresol reaction, the stepwise cresol hydrogen addition reactions are faster, helping to reduce the difference between production rates of toluene and methylcyclohexane seen on monometallic Pt. Here, the rate of meta-cresol complete hydrogenation to 3-methylcyclohexanol could be significantly facilitated relative to that of the unsaturated alcohol dehydration to toluene. Therefore, both toluene and 3-methylcyclohexane are formed via a common pathway entailing 3-methylcyclohexanol and its dehydrated products, methylcyclohexene intermediates.
The alloying of Co with Pt promotes not only methylcyclohexane formation but also the disappearance of the alcohol intermediate. On the same conversion basis, the selectivity of 3-methylcyclohexanol is always lower on Pt–Co than on pure Pt catalysts. Previous reports have shown that Pt bimetallic catalysts show a reduced C–O bond cleavage activity.36,37 Therefore, in the case of bimetallic catalysts, dehydration is the sole reaction channel responsible for the conversion of alcohols. It is very likely that introduction of Co modified the γ-Al2O3 support such that more sites for alcohol dehydration are generated. In fact, it is clear in previous reports that Co and Ni interact strongly with alumina support.23,25 Co and Ni atoms can penetrate into the alumina matrix to create Co–AlxOy or aluminate-like surface species. Some studies have shown that the degree of aluminate formation can depend on the calcination temperature of samples.26 Aluminate species tend to form at lower temperatures with Co than with Ni. Cobalt aluminate and similar species like zinc aluminate have been used as effective alcohol dehydration catalysts.38,39 Here, after the reduction process, there is still a fraction of the Co and Ni atoms strongly coordinated to alumina that remain unreduced. They could be the source of the additional sites for the alcohol dehydration reactions.
5 Conclusions
Hydrodeoxygenation of monomeric phenolic compounds in the vapor phase and at low hydrogen pressure is proven to be an effective tool to investigate the reaction mechanism without having to consider the transport and liquid-water contributions in aqueous and trickle processes. The 1.7% Pt/γ-Al2O3catalyst is found to be effective for HDO of meta-cresol with 80% selectivity toward toluene at a conversion of 38%. A bifunctional mechanism is operative in a way that metal function is mandatory for ring hydrogenation to alcohol intermediates and an acid function is needed for deoxygenating these intermediates via dehydration reactions. Unlike the aqueous HDO of phenol on 5.0% Pd/C in H3PO4 solution, phenolic ring hydrogenations are the rate-limiting steps. This leads to the high selectivity to toluene over the hydrogenated cyclic hydrocarbon, methylcyclohexane, because toluene formation requires fewer hydrogenation steps than its counterpart.
More reactive HDO catalysts are synthesized by addition of 3d metals (Co and Ni) into Pt. The bimetallic Pt–Ni/Al2O3 and Pt–Co/Al2O3catalysts not only increase the overall HDO conversion, but also modify the product distribution. The rate of formation of the hydrogenated hydrocarbon, methylcyclohexane, is enhanced with respect to toluene. The total deoxygenation selectivity is also higher on the bimetallic catalysts due to the generation of additional sites—suggested to be surface aluminate species between 3d metals and alumina support—for alcohol dehydration. This study has successfully demonstrated that efficient catalysts for upgrading of phenolic compounds can be designed by tuning different catalyst active functions based on the knowledge of reaction mechanisms.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported as part of the Catalysis Center for Energy Innovation, an Energy Frontier Research Center funded by the US Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences under Award Number DE-SC0001004.
A. F. and R. F. L. acknowledge the funding from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Surf-cat: Catalysts for Production of JP-8 range molecules from Lignocellulosic Biomass). The views, opinions, and/or findings contained in this article are those of the author and should not be interpreted as representing the official views or policies, either expressed or implied, of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency or the Department of Defense.
References
D. Mohan , C. U. J. Pittman and P. H. Steele , Energy Fuels, 2006, 20 , 848 —889 CrossRef CAS .
M. Garcia-Perez , A. Chaala , H. Pakdel , D. Kretschmer and C. Roy , Biomass Bioenergy, 2007, 31 , 222 —242 CrossRef CAS .
A. G. Gayubo , B. Valle , A. T. Aguayo , M. Olazar and J. Bilbao , J. Chem. Technol. Biotechnol., 2010, 85 , 132 —144 CrossRef CAS .
T. V. Choudhary and C. B. Phillips , Appl. Catal., A, 2011, 397 , 1 —12 CrossRef CAS .
V. M. L. Whiffen and K. J. Smith , Energy Fuels, 2010, 24 , 4728 —4737 CrossRef CAS .
E. O. Odebunmi and D. F. Ollis , J. Catal., 1983, 80 , 56 —64 CrossRef CAS .
E. O. Odebunmi and D. F. Ollis , J. Catal., 1983, 80 , 65 —75 CrossRef CAS .
B. S. Gevert , J. E. Otterstedt and F. E. Massoth , Appl. Catal., 1987, 31 , 119 —131 CrossRef CAS .
A. Pinheiro , D. Hudebine , N. Dupassieux and C. Geantet , Energy Fuels, 2009, 23 , 1007 —1014 CrossRef CAS .
A. Gutierrez , R. K. Kaila , M. L. Honkela , R. Slioor and A. O. I. Krause , Catal. Today, 2009, 147 , 239 —246 CrossRef CAS .
C. Zhao , Y. Kou , A. A. Lemonidou , X. Li and J. A. Lercher , Chem. Commun., 2010, 46 , 412 —414 RSC .
C. Zhao , Y. Kou , A. A. Lemonidou , X. Li and J. A. Lercher , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2009, 48 , 3987 —3990 CrossRef CAS .
D. Y. Hong , S. J. Miller , P. K. Agrawala and C. W. Jones , Chem. Commun., 2010, 46 , 1038 —1040 RSC .
A. Niquille-Röthlisbergera and R. Prins , J. Catal., 2006, 242 , 207 —216 CrossRef .
V. Demers-Carpentier , M–A. Lalibertée , S. Lavoie , G. Mahieu and P. H. McBreen , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2010, 114 , 7291 —7298 CrossRef CAS .
S. Lu , W. W. Lonergan , J. P. Bosco , S. Wang , Y. Zhu , Y. Xie and J. G. Chen , J. Catal., 2008, 259 , 260 —268 CrossRef CAS .
S. Lu , C. A. Menning , Y. Zhu and J. G. Chen , ChemPhysChem, 2009, 10 , 1763 —1765 CrossRef CAS .
W. W. Lonergan , D. G. Vlachos and J. G. Chen , J. Catal., 2010, 271 , 239 —250 CrossRef CAS .
E. Laurenta and B. Delmon , Appl. Catal., A, 1994, 109 , 97 —115 CrossRef .
A. V. Bridgwater Appl. Catal., A, 1994, 116 , 5 —47 CrossRef CAS .
A. V. Bridgwater Catal. Today, 1996, 29 , 285 —295 CrossRef CAS .
H. Hamada , Y. Kintaichi , M. Sasaki , T. Ito and M. Tabata , Appl. Catal., 1991, 75 , 1 —8 CrossRef .
B. Jongsomjit , J. Panpranot and J. G. J. Goodwin , J. Catal., 2001, 204 , 98 —109 CrossRef CAS .
D. Schanke , A. M. Hilmen , E. Bergene , K. Kinnari , E. Rytter , E. Adnanes and A. Holmen , Catal. Lett., 1995, 34 , 269 CrossRef CAS .
D. Schanke , S. Vada , E. A. Blekkan , A. M. Hilmen , A. Hoff and A. Holmen , J. Catal., 1995, 156 , 85 —95 CrossRef CAS .
A. Kogelbauer , J. G. J. Goodwin and R. Oukaci , J. Catal., 1996, 160 , 125 —133 CrossRef CAS .
A. K. Talukdar , K. G. Bhattacharyya and S. Sivasanker , Appl. Catal., A, 1993, 96 , 229 —239 CrossRef CAS .
K. A. Cumming and B. W. Wojciechowski , Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng., 1996, 38 , 101 —157 CrossRef CAS .
A. Popov , E. Kondratieva , J. M. Goupil , L. Mariey , P. Bazin , J. P. Gilson , A. Travert and F. Maugé , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2010, 114 , 15661 CrossRef CAS .
M. Digne , P. Sautet , P. Raybaud , P. Euzen and H. Toulhoat , J. Catal., 2002, 211 , 1 —5 CrossRef CAS .
S. Jongpatiwut , Z. Li , D. E. Resasco , W. E. Alvarez , E. L. Sughrue and G. W. Dodwell , Appl. Catal., A, 2004, 262 , 241 —253 CrossRef CAS .
C. D. Baertsch , K. T. Komala , Y. H. Chua and E. Iglesia , J. Catal., 2002, 205 , 44 —57 CrossRef CAS .
J. H. Kwak , D. Mei , C. H. F. Peden , R. Rousseau and J. N. Szanyi , Catal. Lett., 2011, 141 , 649 —655 CrossRef CAS .
A. J.Foster and R. F.Lobo, unpublished work.
M. P. Humbert and J. G. Chen , J. Catal., 2008, 257 , 297 —306 CrossRef CAS .
G. W. Huber and J. A. Dumesic , Catal. Today, 2006, 111 , 119 —132 CrossRef CAS .
G. W. Huber , J. W. Shabaker , S. T. Evans and J. A. Dumesic , Appl. Catal., B, 2006, 62 , 226 —235 CrossRef CAS .
T.Ramalingam and Swamy, Proceedings of fourth national symposium on catalysis, Catalysis Society of India, 1978, p. 244.
T. K. Shioyama U.S. Pat. , 4, 260, 845, 1981 .
This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2012