element not found

ACS CatalysisVol 1/Issue 10Article
Cite
Share
Jump to
Expand
PERSPECTIVEAugust 15, 2011
Understanding and Controlling Reactivity of Unsaturated Oxygenates and Polyols on Metal Catalysts
J. Will Medlin*
View Author Information
View Author Information
Open PDF
Abstract
The production of fuels and chemicals from biomass requires heterogeneous catalysts that facilitate selective reactions of highly functional oxygenates. Although designing catalysts for high selectivity is a universal challenge in heterogeneous catalysis research, the problem is particularly acute for highly functional molecules, which contain two or more functional groups that may react over metal surfaces. This perspective article focuses on recent efforts to develop structure–property relations on metal surfaces and catalysts for two classes of highly functional molecules: multifunctional oxygenates such as α,β-unsaturated aldehydes and furanic compounds, and polyfunctional oxygenates such as glycerol and other polyols. Recent results from comparative reaction studies over a variety of catalysts, surface science experiments, and computational investigations suggest an array of approaches for producing more selective catalysts, many relying on the addition of multiple metals or other surface modifiers. General strategies that appear to show promise in the selective reactions of unsaturated oxygenates and of polyols are discussed in detail.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright © 2011 American Chemical Society
Subjects
what are subjects
Adsorption
Alcohols
Aldehydes
Catalysts
Selectivity
Keywords
what are keywords
Cellulosic Biomass
Biorefinery
Alcohol Oxidation
Aldehyde Hydrogenation
Platinum
Gold
Palladium
Ruthenium
Introduction
The interest in conversion of biomass to fuels and chemicals has driven renewed emphasis on developing heterogeneous catalysts for reactions involving oxygenated compounds. A number of useful platform chemicals can be produced from biomass deconstruction, as discussed in several recent reviews. (1, 2) Many of these chemicals are highly functional oxygenates; that is, they contain two or more functional groups, at least one of which is an oxygen-containing function. The production of an array of useful chemicals and fuels from these platform chemicals in a biorefinery requires the capability to selectively catalyze targeted transformations at a particular functional position on the molecule. Producing supported metal catalysts capable of such selective transformations is a challenging objective, because highly functional oxygenates can potentially bind to the catalyst and react through any of their functional groups. Thus, the design of catalysts that are selective for reactions of multifunctional oxygenates is even more complex than for reactions of monofunctional compounds, already a major focus of heterogeneous catalysis research.
The surface chemistry of simple oxygenates on catalytically active metal surfaces has previously been reviewed. (3) This perspective article focuses on recent attempts to identify active and selective metal catalysts for transformations of several probe reactions involving highly functional oxygenates. These reactions are divided into two fundamental types, as illustrated in Scheme 1:
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Examples of Multifunctional and Polyfunctional Oxygenates Considered in This Article
Reactions of multifunctional compounds. As defined in this perspective article, multifunctional molecules include combinations of diverse functional groups, for example, the aldehyde, ether, and C═C unsaturated functions in furfural. Because of substantial chemical differences in the functional groups, there seems to be a strong opportunity for development of catalysts that are specific for reactions of particular functional groups. For example, one can envision bifunctional catalysts in which an oxygenated function interacts with one metal and an olefin function with another. (4, 5) Such ideas have in fact served as significant drivers for research into the hydrogenation of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes (perhaps the most investigated multifunctional reagents). However, as discussed below, simplified notions about bifunctional catalysts for reactions of unsaturated aldehydes have been called into question based on recent research. These issues are likely to be important in reactions of furanic compounds derived from biomass, as also discussed below.
Reactions of polyfunctional compounds. Polyfunctional compounds, as defined in this perspective article, contain multiple occurrences of the same functional group. One classic example of such a class of compounds, and the focus of this article, is the polyols. Commonly referred to as “alcohol sugars”, polyols such as glycerol (C3H5(OH)3), xylitol (C5H7(OH)5), and sorbitol (C6H8(OH)6) are key intermediates in biorefining pathways. (6) Selective conversions of polyols into desired products, for example, through oxidation to hydroxylated aldehydes, ketones, and acids or hydrogenolysis to lower molecular weight polyols requires a high degree of reaction specificity. As discussed below, it is often desirable to control reaction selectivity toward conversion of primary versus secondary alcohols. Given the uniformity of the functional groups, achieving such specificity represents a very difficult objective for heterogeneous catalysis by metals.
Below, we describe efforts to understand the reaction chemistry of highly functional oxygenates on heterogeneous metal catalysts and to develop improved catalysts for biorefining and other applications. Scheme 2 presents the molecular structures for key compounds discussed in these sections. Surface-level investigations of the relevant chemistry are described, focusing on how the presence of multiple functional groups affects adsorption and reaction behavior on transition metal surfaces. Structure–activity relations determined from reaction investigations over a variety of supported catalysts are also discussed. Finally, we attempt to outline general trends that are potentially important in the design of selective heterogeneous catalysts.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Molecular Structure of Key Compounds Discussed in This Article, Organized Alphabetically
Reactions of Multifunctional Molecules
The reactions of oxygenates with unsaturated C═C or aromatic functions are of key importance for a number of biorefining reactions. The thermal treatment of lignin can produce a range of aromatic oxygenates that can be refined for production of fuel components and chemicals. (7) A variety of unsaturated oxygenates can also be produced from cellulosic biomass; the focus of much of the discussion below is on furanic compounds such as furfural and 5-hydroxymethylfurfural, proposed as key building blocks for biorefining. In the following sections, we begin by discussing previous studies of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes as a model system for reactions of unsaturated oxygenates. We then focus on investigations of furanic compounds that have greater direct relevance for biorefining routes.
Hydrogenation of α,β-Unsaturated Oxygenates
The selective hydrogenation of unsaturated aldehydes such as acrolein, crotonaldehyde, and prenal to unsaturated alcohols has been a major focus of catalysis research for decades, and the chemistry has been the subject of extensive reviews. (8-12) We will therefore focus primarily on recent surface-level investigations of this chemistry. See Scheme 3 for a summary of the basic reaction paths. In general, over typical hydrogenation catalysts such as supported Pt and Pd, selectivity to the saturated aldehyde is much higher than the unsaturated alcohol, while at high conversion the fully saturated alcohol is formed. (13) The selectivity toward the unsaturated alcohol increases with methyl substitution, so that prenal hydrogenation is significantly more selective than acrolein hydrogenation. (11) Supported Pt and Pd catalysts are well-known for their activity for binding and hydrogenating olefins, so this affinity for olefin hydrogenation might be interpreted in terms of an adsorption geometry that favors binding of the olefin over binding of the aldehyde function. However, the situation is somewhat more complicated.
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Principal Reaction Paths of α,β-Unsaturated Aldehydes during Hydrogenation over Pt Group Catalysts
Before discussing the surface chemistry of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes, it is useful to very briefly review the results of previous surface science studies of simple aldehydes (such as acetaldehyde) and alkenes (such as ethylene) on Pt-group surfaces. On these surfaces, two basic adsorption geometries are commonly observed: an η1 configuration in which the aldehyde is bound through the O lone pair, and an η2 configuration in which both the C and the O atoms of the carbonyl function are bound to the surface, resulting in significant rehybridization of the C–O bond. (14-19) The more strongly adsorbed η2 carbonyl species typically react on transition metal surfaces via C–H scission at the carbonyl position and subsequent CO abstraction; on some surfaces, the decarbonylation reaction appears to be preceded by dehydrogenation at the β-C position which competes with C–O scission. (18) Ethylene can also adsorb in at least two configurations: through an interaction of the ethylene π electrons with the surface or through formation of σ bonds with each of the carbon atoms. The di-σ state is typically more stable, while the π state is the more reactive species for ethylene hydrogenation. (20, 21) Adsorbed ethylene can also undergo dehydrogenation-rehydrogenation to produce highly stable ethylidyne intermediates.
Experimental studies on single crystal surfaces of Pt (22-24) and Pd (25-27) have shown that α,β-unsaturated aldehydes generally adopt a flat-lying adsorption geometry at low coverages, such that both the olefin and the aldehyde functional groups coordinate with the surface. However, the detailed surface chemistry is highly dependent on the adsorbate coverage, and the molecular structure of the α,β-unsaturated aldehyde. For example, the presence of a methyl group in crotonaldehyde causes significant differences both in preferred binding geometry and in observed thermal decomposition products on Pd(111) and Pt(111) that seem unexpected given the weak interaction strength between methyl groups and the surface. (23, 26, 27) While initial attempts to identify binding geometries of unsaturated aldehydes focused on determining a single “most preferred” structure, recent studies employing both surface science experiments and density functional calculations indicate that the adsorption chemistry of unsaturated aldehydes is highly complex. Multiple intermediates having different degrees of coordination—from relatively upright adsorbates bound through one of the two functional groups, to flat-lying adsorbates—exist on the surface. (28-35) Figure 1 shows the example of prenal adsorption on Pt(111), where at least five adsorbed forms are detected on the surface after adsorption at low temperature. (29) The most highly coordinated (η4) forms of the molecule are populated at low coverage, with less-coordinated states becoming more prevalent at higher adsorbate coverage. As several previous studies have shown, the more weakly adsorbed species formed at higher coverages are often expected to be most important under conditions of catalysis. (20, 21, 36)
Figure 1
Figure 1. Adsorption modes of prenal on Pt(111) identified from a combination of density functional theory calculations and vibrational spectroscopy. Adsorption energies in kJ/mol for each structure were reported as (a) −54.2, (b) −47.8, (c) −49.5, (d) −58.6, and (e) −47.2. Reprinted from ref 29. Copyright 2008 American Chemical Society.
Recent work by Loffreda et al. has challenged the assumption that the lower selectivities to unsaturated alcohols over Pt surfaces are a direct result of preferential binding and faster reaction for the olefin function. They found that the elementary C═O hydrogenation step is actually more rapid, even when the molecules are bound through the C═C function. (37) The C═O hydrogenation reaction proceeds through a metastable precursor state for O–H bond formation where the O is not directly bound to the surface, with the α,β-unsaturated aldehyde adsorbed in a state similar to that shown in Figure 1(a). This reaction involves a surface-bound H atom and an O atom that is not directly adsorbed on the surface but is in proximity because of the adsorption of the C═C function. It was thus described as being intermediate behavior between Langmuir–Hinshelwood and Eley–Rideal type adsorption and reaction. In contrast, olefin hydrogenation, which occurs through the adsorbed C═C function, is purely a Langmuir–Hinshelwood process. The higher activation energy for desorption of the unsaturated alcohol product from the surface was determined as the reason for lower selectivity observed for this pathway. Thus, tight binding of the olefin plays a role in suppressing selectivity to the desired product, but in a more indirect way than perhaps commonly envisioned. In this view, the tight binding of the olefin function in the desired product limits selectivity to the unsaturated alcohol not because of faster reaction of the more strongly adsorbed functional group, but because tighter binding of that functional group inhibits desired product desorption.
Ultimately, it is desirable to use insights from fundamental investigations to design new catalysts for unsaturated oxygenates. Loffreda et al. have recently demonstrated that selectivity predictions can be made on a simplified basis by constructing Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi (BEP) relations to determine the activation energy of different steps in a complex mechanism. (38) In this approach, a linear relationship between reaction energies and reaction barriers is assumed for related reaction steps. In the case of crotonaldehyde hydrogenation, the adsorption energy of the transition state was found to be closely correlated with the adsorption energy for the hydrogenation precursor (in which the adsorbate is located in a prereaction condition next to H) when the reaction steps were placed in one of three categories. These categories were defined based on where the H atom was added: reaction with O, reaction with the aldehydic carbon, or reaction with an olefinic carbon. The same BEP relations were usable between acrolein and prenal on Pt(111), and predicted the improved selectivity for prenal hydrogenation compared to acrolein hydrogenation on Pt surfaces. This approach may therefore be useful in predicting new surface compositions that are highly selective for hydrogenation of unsaturated aldehydes. In another interesting recent contribution, Haubrich et al. have shown that the adsorption energy of unsaturated aldehydes on Pt(111) is a poor metric for describing the strength of the chemical bonds formed between the adsorbates and metal surfaces. (39) In some cases, strong adsorption of multiple functional groups causes significant (endothermic) relaxation of the metal surface, so that greater bond adsorbate–surface bond strengths (associated with significant rehybridization of bonds in the adsorbate) do not necessarily correlate with the overall adsorption energy of multifunctional molecules.
One method of modifying Pt-group surfaces involves the addition of oxophilic metals such as Sn and Fe. (40, 41) Such catalysts have been known for many years to improve selectivity to the desired unsaturated alcohol products. It might be supposed that the role of an oxophilic modifier such as Sn is to interact preferentially with the O atom of the aldehyde function, thus increasing the selectivity to aldehyde hydrogenation because of a stronger interaction of C═O with the surfaces. However, recent experimental and computational investigations conducted using model systems have suggested alternative functions of the modifiers. (28, 29, 42, 43) One of the effects of Sn in Pt2Sn or Pt3Sn surface alloys appears to be a general weakening of the adsorption of unsaturated aldehydes to η1 or η2 rather than η4 adsorption modes that are prevalent on Pt(111), with the O atom generally interacting with the Sn atom. On Sn-modified surfaces, adsorption of crotonaldehyde through η2 binding of the C═C function is still found to be preferred over adsorption of the C═O function; however, as discussed above, weakened binding through this function may lead to enhanced selectivity even if the carbonyl is not adsorbed, by reducing the desorption energy of the desired unsaturated alcohol product. This mechanism also explains the higher selectivity toward carbonyl hydrogenation observed for substituted α,β-unsaturated aldehydes such as prenal compared to unsubstituted acrolein. Methyl substitution at the olefin position weakens adsorption of the olefin function, improving selectivity toward the desired product. (44)
Chen and co-workers have investigated a variety of Pt-based bimetallic surfaces for acrolein hydrogenation. They recently reported the observation of propenol formation from acrolein hydrogenation in ultrahigh vacuum during temperature programmed desorption (TPD) over a Pt/Ni/Pt(111) surface. (45) For this surface, Ni preferentially populates first subsurface layer, while Pt forms the surface layer. The subsurface Ni layer weakens the binding energy of acrolein and other adsorbates on the surface, and disfavors adsorption of acrolein in a strongly coordinated η4 configuration. (46, 47) Adsorption of the aldehyde function was observed to become energetically competitive with (but still weaker than) the C═C function for the Pt/Ni/Pt(111) surface, as shown in Figure 2. On the other hand, a Ni/Pt(111) bimetallic surface was found to be highly favorable toward adsorption of acrolein in an η4 configuration, and no propenol was produced during TPD. The tendency for formation of propenol was related to the d-band center of the surface, with the Pt/Ni/Pt(111) surface having the most negative d-band center among the group Pt/Ni/Pt(111), Pt(111), and Ni/Pt(111). It was also determined that the surface concentration of coadsorbed H atoms played a major role on selectivity and on the adsorbed structure of acrolein, with the H-covered Pt/Ni/Pt(111) surface preferentially stabilizing adsorption through the carbonyl. Chen and co-workers have recently extended these studies to other Pt-3d bimetallics, including Pt/Co/Pt(111) and Pt/Cu/Pt(111). These surfaces also showed enhanced propenol production compared to Pt(111), though propenol production was higher on Pt/Ni/Pt(111) for reasons which are not currently clear. (48) Overall, these investigations suggest that a strategy of using 3d metals to weaken the binding energy of unsaturated aldehyde on Pt group surfaces can promote selectivity.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Adsorption modes of acrolein on Pt(111) and Ni–Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces. Subsurface Ni destabilized the adsorption of acrolein and increases the favorability of η2-adsorption of the aldehyde function (left figure in part (a)) compared to adsorption of the olefin function or η4 adsorption (through both functions center and right structures in (a)). Reprinted from ref 45. Copyright 2007 American Chemical Society.
In an alternative approach to controlling selectivity, Hutchings and co-workers have observed that the selectivity for the hydrogenation of crotonaldehyde to crotyl alcohol (2-buten-1-ol) can be promoted by the addition of small amounts of thiophene to a supported Cu catalyst prior to use. (49) As thiophene was added in increasing amounts to the surface, the conversion of crotonaldehyde continuously dropped, but the selectivity to crotyl alcohol over butanol increased significantly before declining at large thiophene exposures. This effect was observed for a variety of sulfur-containing compounds. (50) More recently Chiu et al. have studied the effect of sulfur using surface science techniques and Cu(111) single crystals. (51) They observed that the addition of 0.43 monolayers of sulfur resulted in significant hydrogenation of crotonaldehyde to both crotyl alcohol and n-butanal during TPD with coadsorbed hydrogen, whereas hydrogenation products were absent when S was not coadsorbed. Spectroscopic techniques were used to show that sulfur modifies the electronic structure of the surface to favor tilting of the C═C and C═O bonds with respect to the surface plane, weakening adsorption and favoring hydrogenation. (52) The C═C bond was proposed to be tilted to a greater extent than the C═O bond, favoring hydrogenation to crotyl alcohol. The continuous addition of small quantities of thiophene has also been observed to improve the overall activity and selectivity for hydrogenation of the carbonyl function of citral. (39) However, this effect of sulfur does not necessarily appear to be extendable to Pt-group catalysts. In related studies, Marshall et al. have recently shown that the modification of Pd/Al2O3 with self-assembled monolayers of alkanethiols dramatically increases the selectivity for crotonaldehyde hydrogenation to butyraldehyde, suppressing the series hydrogenation to butanol. (53) However, the selectivity to crotyl alcohol is not noticeably improved.
The hydrogenation of unsaturated aldehydes has also been investigated over nanoparticle Au catalysts modified by indium. Mohr et al. (54) have shown that the selectivity for formation of propenol improves upon the addition of indium to the catalyst. This has been attributed to the preference of In for being located on Au faces rather than edges; indium has been proposed to block the adsorption of acrolein on the less-selective faces, enabling the more-selective edges to participate in the reaction. However, recent theoretical calculations have challenged this interpretation. He et al. (55) used density functional theory (DFT) calculations to explore acrolein binding and hydrogenation on Au surfaces modified with In. Although their results confirmed that indium prefers to bind in the higher-coordination terrace sites, they found that C═C hydrogenation occurs preferentially at edge sites. Their calculations indicate that the presence of In promotes the adsorption of the carbonyl function of acrolein, improving the reactivity of the face sites for the desired reaction. Grass et al. recently observed that the selectivity to unsaturated alcohols is improved on supported Pt catalysts with larger crystallites and therefore relatively fewer edge sites, suggesting a similar structure sensitivity. (13) Moreover, the structure sensitivity associated with these reactions suggests that catalyst particles with well-defined shapes, such as those increasingly employed for other catalytic reactions, (56) (57) may be a promising approach for improving selectivity in hydrogenation of unsaturated oxygenates.
Finally, a recent study by Brandt et al. focused on characterizing the relationship between acrolein adsorption geometry and hydrogenation selectivity on Ag(111). (58) At low coverages, acrolein was found to adsorb in a flat-lying geometry, but the C═C bond was determined to tilt at high coverages, leading to higher selectivity for production of the unsaturated alcohol during temperature programmed reaction. Interestingly, formation of the series reaction product propanol was controlled in part by the coverage of adsorbed H atoms, with lower H coverages leading to reduced affinity of the C═C bond in allyl alcohol for the surface and therefore reduced production of the undesired series product. It should be noted that caution must be taken when comparing the results of surface science investigations directly to high-pressure investigations using supported catalysts. As shown by Bron et al., the selectivity for acrolein hydrogenation to allyl alcohol on supported Ag catalysts and at high pressure is much higher than for single Ag crystals and low pressure. (59) Thus, the use of techniques such as sum-frequency generation vibrational spectroscopy for characterization of the reaction chemistry in situ will be valuable for future efforts at catalyst design. Somorjai and co-workers have recently shown that such an approach can be used to track η2 versus η3 forms of adsorbed unsaturated aldehydes on single-crystal Pt surfaces under relatively high pressure conditions. (60)
Hydrogenation of Biomass-Derived Furanic Compounds
Functionalized furans including furfural and 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) have been proposed as compounds that will play a central role in biorefineries. (61) These chemicals are produced from dehydration of C5 and C6 sugars, respectively, and performing chemistry on their functional groups provides routes to chemicals and fuels. (62) As discussed below, there are many parallels between the surface chemistry of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes and these furanic compounds. In both cases, reaction selectivity can potentially be directed either toward an aldehyde function or an unsaturated group, and the competition for binding of these groups to the surface will hypothetically play a role in controlling selectivity. However, the furyl group presents a bulkier and even more electron-delocalized system that can affect the chemistry of the oxygenate function. Furthermore, the ether function in the furan ring can potentially play a distinct role in the chemistry.
It is first useful to review previous investigations of the surface chemistry of furan on the surfaces of traditional hydrogenation catalysts. For example, furan adsorption and decomposition has been investigated extensively on Pd(111) (Scheme 4). (63-67) Furan adsorbs with its four carbon atoms in a plane parallel to the surface, with the O atom tilted away from the surface. During TPD, furan desorbs from a chemisorbed state just below 300 K or reacts via ring-opening decarbonylation to produce CO and C3H3 intermediates. The C3H3 intermediates can undergo subsequent coupling at higher temperatures to produce adsorbed benzene.
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Furan Thermal Decomposition Pathway on Pd(111)
During hydrogenation reactions of interest for biorefining chemistry, the furan ring is expected to sequentially produce a dihydrofuran (DHF), namely, 2,3-DHF or 2,5-DHF depending on the position of the ring to which the H atoms are added, followed by tetrahydrofuran (THF). The chemistry of these compounds has also been investigated on Pd(111). (68) There are some broad similarities between 2,5-DHF and 2,3-DHF (Scheme 5) when comparing their adsorption and decomposition mechanisms. (68) Vibrational spectroscopy and DFT calculations indicate that 2,3-DHF and 2,5-DHF adsorb on Pd(111) primarily via their respective olefin functional groups at low temperature (<170 K). Both molecules undergo dehydrogenation by 248 K to form species that produce furan in a reaction-limited process above 300 K. However, there are some key differences in the reactivity of these two species that are potentially important for catalysis. The first is that the position of the olefin function in the ring affects the adsorption energy C–H bond strength of adsorbed furanic compounds. It was found during TPD investigations that 2,3-DHF can be hydrogenated to produce tetrahydrofuran (THF) at about 330 K, whereas 2,5-DHF is more likely to dehydrogenate, producing furan in an additional low-temperature channel at approximately 320 K. The differences were related to differences in the reactivity of C–H bonds at the 2,5-positions compared to the 2,3-positions, that is, their proximity to the ether O atom. The proximity of the O atom to the olefin function in 2,3-DHF was also found to lead to stronger adsorption compared to 2,5-DHF. (69, 70) A second interesting observation is that in the lowest-energy pathway for production of furan, 2,5-DHF was found to incorporate deuterium atoms that were preadsorbed on the surface. Even though the production of furan from 2,5-DHF involves the net loss of two H atoms, the reaction proceeds through an intermediate that incorporates H atoms available on the surface, indicating significant C–H scission activity. In contrast, no H exchange with the surface is seen during furan TPD. As discussed in further detail below, this observation is consistent with a higher barrier for C–H scission from furan because of its aromaticity; “breaking” the aromaticity can thus lead to new surface chemistry.
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Thermal Decomposition Pathway of 2,3-DHF on Pd(111)a
Scheme aFor simplicity, surface H atoms and H2 are not shown.
More recently, the thermal chemistry of furfural, C4H3(CHO)O, and furfuryl alcohol, C4H3(CH2OH)O, have been investigated on Pd(111), with the reported mechanism summarized in Scheme 6. (71) The TPD results indicate furfural undergoes decomposition to produce furan, propylene, carbon monoxide, and hydrogen. Furfuryl alcohol forms the same products but also undergoes C–O scission to yield methylfuran and water. Together with DFT calculations, these results indicate that furfuryl alcohol can decompose through a surface furfural intermediate, similar to the reaction pathway observed for simple alcohols such as ethanol (see Section 3 below). The additional methylfuran pathway, however, is not observed for simple alcohols such as ethanol. The reactivity of furfuryl alcohol toward methylfuran formation is likely a function of the weaker C–O bond strength in furfural. The presence of the aldehyde group on the furfural furan ring also has surprising effects on reactivity of the ring. Decarbonylation of furfural produces surface furyl (C4H3O) intermediates that might be expected to exhibit similar chemistry to those produced from furan (C4H4O). However, the reaction products differ significantly. Although furan is produced during furfural and furfuryl alcohol TPD, it is found to incorporate up to two hydrogen atoms from the surface, suggesting that an additional C–H bond is broken during formation of furan from a furyl group. Furthermore, a relatively hydrogen-rich product, propylene, is formed even though the furyl ring itself is more hydrogen-poor than furan. The incorporation of up to five D atoms in propylene produced during furfural TPD indicates dramatic rearrangement of C–H bonds that appears to be facilitated on furyl compared to furan. Thus, the chemistry of substituted and unsubstituted furans can differ strongly; substituent groups such as carbonyl ligands that can dissociate from the furan ring create furyl intermediates that have lower symmetry/aromaticity compared to furan, changing the slate of reaction products.
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. Furfuryl Alcohol and Furfural Thermal Decomposition Pathway on Pd(111)a
Scheme aFor simplicity, hydrogen is not directly shown in the mechanism.
These pathways are also observed in the reactivity of furanic compounds over supported Pd catalysts under higher-pressure reaction conditions. For example, Zhang et al. (72) investigated unmodified and K-modified Pd catalysts for the decarbonylation of furfural in the presence of hydrogen. As expected from the model studies described above, where decarbonylation was the major pathway, selectivity to CO and furan was observed to be high on Pd catalysts. The main nonselective product is methylfuran, hypothetically formed by hydrogenation/hydrogenolysis of the C═O bond. These pathways mirror those observed on the Pd(111) surface in UHV experiments (Scheme 6) suggesting that surface-level studies can provide insights into reaction mechanisms and the design of improved catalysts for reactions of furfural. Interestingly, K-promoted catalysts were found to exhibit improved selectivity to decarbonylation relative to hydrogenolysis to methylfuran. This was hypothesized to be due to a weakened interaction of the η2 aldehyde, and based on other work could perhaps be related to the preferential alignment of the CHO dipole to favor C–C scission at the surface. (73, 74)
Further insights are available by considering analogies with the reactions of unsaturated aldehydes such as acrolein, crotonaldehyde, and prenal. As noted above, the furyl group in furfural is expected to play a similar role in modifying the reactivity of the aldehyde as the olefin function of α,β-unsaturated carbonyl compounds. Therefore, the same approaches for modifying catalytic activity and selectivity may be available for reactivity of furanic compounds. Merlo et al. (75) investigated the hydrogenation of furfural over PtSn bimetallic catalysts with similar compositions to those employed for saturation of α,β -unsaturated aldehydes. They observed improved rates for Sn-modified catalysts, with a maximum rate observed for PtSn0.3 catalyst that was approximately six times higher than a pure Pt catalyst. The selectivity to furfuryl alcohol was high (>96%) regardless of Sn content. The rate enhancement observed is consistent with weaker adsorption of furfural through suppression of multiply coordinated modes of adsorption. The hydrogenation of HMF over PdNi catalysts has also been recently reported. (76)
Whereas there is a strong tendency for furanic compounds to adsorb in multiply coordinated structures on Pt group surfaces, on Cu and Ag surfaces much weaker adsorption is observed. Furan adsorbs on Ag(110) in a tilted configuration, desorbing by approximately 200 K during TPD experiments. (77) Similarly low TPD temperatures are observed for furan on Cu(111); in fact, unlike Pd(111), THF is more strongly adsorbed than is furan. (78) The weak interactions of furanic groups with the surface have important implications for catalysis. Resasco and co-workers (79) studied furfural hydrogenation over Cu/SiO2 catalysts. The major product of this reaction in the temperature range 230–280 °C was found to be furfuryl alcohol, with methylfuran formed as a series reaction product at higher temperatures and residence times. The Resasco group conducted a series of kinetic experiments to fit the parameters of a Langmuir–Hinshelwood expression, and coupled this with a DFT investigation of furfural on Cu(111) and Cu(110). They found that, in contrast to similar chemistry over Pt group metal surfaces, the furan ring was actually repelled by the metal surface, with selective adsorption through the oxygenate function (Figure 3). On the basis of FTIR measurements and DFT calculations, they identified the preferred adsorption state as an η1 aldehyde. The preference for this adsorption geometry and repulsion of the furan ring likely accounts for the high selectivity observed to alcohol products. The Resasco group also recently reported a comparative study of supported Cu, Pd, and Ni catalysts. (80) As discussed above, furfural hydrogenation primarily proceeds via decarbonylation on Pd and via formation of furfuryl alcohol on Cu. Over Ni catalysts, stronger interactions of the ring result in the appearance of ring-opened C4 oxygenates and hydrocarbons.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Optimized adsorption structures of furfural on (a) Cu(111) (reprinted with permission from ref 79. Copyright 2011 Elsevier) and (b) Pd(111) (reprinted from ref 71. Copyright 2011 American Chemical Society).
Although the main focus of this section is on hydrogenation, several groups have also begun investigating supported metal catalysts for oxidation reactions, for example, of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural to 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid, a possible renewable replacement for terephthalic acid. Significant recent research has been focused on Au nanoparticle catalysts over various supports, though Pd and Pt catalysts have also shown activity for the reaction. (81-83) The concentration of OH– species in solution plays a vital role in the reactivity, complicating efforts to understand the reaction mechanism using surface-level techniques. However, oxidation of the alcohol function of HMF proceeds through an intermediate aldehyde, likely requiring steps similar to those observed in the decomposition of furfuryl alcohol on Pd(111). (83) Furthermore, design of catalysts to avoid undesirable side reactions such as ring-opening or decarbonylation/decarboxylation may be able to utilize mechanistic insights for these steps over metals. (81)
Finally, it is worth briefly discussing similar cyclic oxygenates that are of interest for biorefining applications. Lactones such as γ-butyrolactone (GBL), γ-valerolactone (GVL), and 2(5H)-furanone (25HF) are important intermediates in various biorefining processes. (84, 85) Here, while the 5-membered ring structure is the same as for furanic compounds, the oxygen functional group is an ester rather than an ether, causing differences in reactivity related to the changed functional group and loss of symmetry of the ring. Adsorption trends at low temperature are fairly similar, however. On both Pd(111) and Pt(111), 25HF adsorbs through its olefin function, whereas the saturated lactone GBL adsorbs more weakly through its oxygenate function. (86, 87) There are two distinct positions for ring-opening on lactones (Scheme 7): C2–O1 dissociation can lead to decarbonylation or production of dioxygenates such as diols, whereas C5–O1 dissociation leads to production of surface carboxylates. On Pd(111), 25HF undergoes extensive decarbonylation on Pd(111) initiated by C2–O1 cleavage at the carbonyl position. The two ends of the resulting adsorbate can both undergo decarbonylation, yielding two CO molecules and a C2 fragment. However, on Pt(111) significant selectivity for C5–O1 scission is observed, ultimately resulting in decarboxylation chemistry. Ring-opening processes of GBL occur with a lower activation barrier, resulting in both decarboxylation and decarbonylation (87)
Scheme 7
Scheme 7. Partial Scheme for 2(5H)-Furanone Adsorption and Decomposition on Pd(111) and Pt(111) (Adapted from Ref 86. Copyright 2009 American Chemical Society)
Several routes involving production of fuels or chemicals from lactones have recently been proposed, with particular recent interest related to production and utilization of GVL. (88) GVL is produced from the hydrogenation/dehydration of levulinic acid, a reaction that can be carried out with high yields over Pd, Pt, and Ru catalysts, with Ru appearing to be most active. (89, 90) The reaction occurs through an Angelica lactone intermediate that, like 25HF, has a C═C bond along the ring. (89) The pathway for formation of GVL is likely to be closely related to the (reverse) reactions of 25HF and GBL that yield carboxylate intermediates, as described above. The higher yield of GVL observed over Pt-based catalysts compared to Pd appears to be consistent with the observation of enhanced carboxylate formation over Pt(111) compared to Pd(111). (86, 89) Similarly, supported metal catalysts incorporating Ru and Pd are active for the hydrogenation of succinic acid to GBL, and the subsequent ring-opening of GBL to produce 1,4-butanediol. (91-94) Typically, a second metal such as Re is employed to increase ring-opening reactivity. Hydrogenation of GBL to 1,4-butanediol would require selective ring-opening at the bond at the C2–O1 position; this reaction is observed to occur with high selectivity on Pd(111), consistent with the good performance of supported Pd catalysts for this reaction. More study on a variety of metal surfaces is needed to enable design of more active and selective catalysts for producing and ring-opening of lactones. However, initial indications are that efforts to design catalysts for reactions of lactones on metal surfaces based on surface science approaches may be productive.
In summary, the reactions of furanic compounds on metal surfaces have received far less scrutiny than reactions of α,β-unsaturated oxygenates, so that catalyst design principles are less well-developed. However, there are a few key ways in which the multifunctional nature of these molecules can control reactivity. The furan ring significantly weakens the C–O bond of pendant oxygenates, creating opportunities for new deoxygenation reactions relative to simple alcohols. Furthermore, oxygenate pendant groups can strongly affect the chemistry of the furan ring; dissociation of these groups from the furan ring produces furyl intermediates that are much more reactive on Pd(111) than furan. Finally, cyclic esters (lactones) initially adsorb in configurations similar to cyclic ethers (furans), but the asymmetry of the lactone ring creates opportunities to control ring-opening selectivity toward either carboxylates or dialkoxides based on the choice of metal.
Reactions of Polyfunctional Molecules: Polyols
Another important class highly functional is the diols and polyols, which react on metal surfaces pathways reminiscent of those for unsaturated oxygenates. Polyols can be produced in large quantities from biomass. Glycerol is a stoichiometric byproduct of the transesterification of fatty acids to produce biodiesel. (95) Sorbitol and xylitol are produced from hydrogenation of glucose and xylose, respectively, with recent reports suggesting that alcohol sugars can be products from direct treatment of cellulose. (96) Prominent surveys of useful biorefining building blocks have included all three polyols among the top candidate chemicals, and thus they have received considerable research attention. (97, 98) Numerous transformations for polyols have been explored; for example, processes for glycerol conversion include selective oxidation to hydroxylated aldehydes and carboxylic acids, hydrogenolysis to diols, dehydration to unsaturated alcohols, dehydration to acetol and acrolein, and etherification to higher molecular weight molecules of fuels interest. (97, 99) This review will focus only on selected studies of glycerol oxidation and hydrogenolysis, with the understanding that principles of reactivity on metal surfaces may be transferrable to other technologies. The surface intermediates produced in these reactions are often comparable to those of the unsaturated oxygenates discussed above. Oxidation of polyols produces multifunctional aldehyde intermediates, and dehydration produces unsaturated oxygenate intermediates. While differences in typical reaction conditions and the early state of fundamental studies make it difficult to make direct links between optimal catalysts, some connections are evident as indicated below.
Before discussing the reactions of polyols on metal surfaces in detail, it is useful to briefly review the chemistry of monofunctional alcohols on metal surfaces. This chemistry has been investigated extensively, and only a brief overview is provided here. (16, 26, 100-111) Scheme 8 shows the decomposition pathway for ethanol on Pd(111) as a representative example. (112) Reaction occurs through sequential dehydrogenation steps to produce an aldehyde intermediate, which undergoes decarbonylation to produce CO and adsorbed alkyls. Similar decomposition pathways are observed on Pt, Ni, and Ru surfaces. (101, 102, 108, 109, 111, 113-116) The initial decomposition step has generally been ascribed to O–H scission to produce an adsorbed alkoxide on these surfaces, though some recent studies suggest that the initial bond dissociation is a C–H scission step to produce adsorbed hydroxyalkyls. (117) To initiate alcohol decomposition on Ag surfaces, predosed atomic oxygen is required as a Brønsted base, and on Cu either surface oxygen or elevated dosing temperature is required. (118-120) Decomposition of alcohols has been shown to proceed through alternative or additional pathways on Rh(111), (103) where decomposition proceeds through surface oxametallacycle intermediates, and on Ag and Cu surfaces, where aldehyde decarbonylation is not observed. (118-120) These reactivity differences suggest possible differences in selectivity for catalytic reactions of alcohols, as discussed below.
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. Scheme for Ethanol Adsorption and Decomposition on Pd(111)a
Scheme aThe boxed intermediates represent two possible initial hydrogenation intermediates that have been proposed in the literature.
Aldehyde intermediates are prominent in the surface chemistry of alcohols, and also represent important functional groups for reactions discussed below. Aldehydes may be bound to the surface either through both their C and their O atoms in an η2 arrangement or through the O atom via an η1 orientation. (14-19, 121) The preference for one form over another is dictated by the composition of the surface, the presence of coadsorbates, and the molecular structure of the aldehyde. The η1 intermediates tend to be more weakly adsorbed, whereas the more strongly adsorbed η2 aldehydes undergo decomposition reaction including decarbonylation.
Oxidation of primary alcohols to aldehydes and carboxylic acids and of secondary alcohols to ketones has been extensively studied on supported metal catalysts such as Pt and Pd. (122, 123) The mechanism for oxidative dehydrogenation of alcohols to aldehydes and ketones is generally accepted to involve the alcohol decomposition intermediates discussed above, where oxygen removes H and/or strongly adsorbed carbonaceous species from the surface through the water-forming reaction. (124) The oxidation reactions can be conducted under generally mild conditions (<100 C, <1 atm oxygen pressures), often under mildly basic pH; the use of base is particularly important for production of carboxylic acids. A variety of promoters such as Bi and Pb are generally used to improve the activity and modify the selectivity of the catalysts, but the mechanism for the promotion in general is poorly understood. (122) Suggested roles for the promoters include the formation of favorable ensembles of active metal atoms (thus reducing the effects of self-poisoning, which is commonly observed because of the presence of strongly adsorbed intermediates), (125, 126) or stabilization of reactive OH species, (127) among other proposed explanations. As discussed below, such promoters can also be useful in the oxidation of polyols, and a better understanding of their function would be beneficial. Nanoparticle Au catalysts have also shown high activity for alcohol oxidation in basic solution. (128) Silver catalysts have been employed for alcohol oxidation, though generally in vapor-phase reaction conditions. (129, 130)
A number of surface-level studies have been conducted using diols, with relatively little work on larger polyols. We will focus in particular on the surface chemistry of ethylene glycol (EG) and 1,2-propylene glycol (PG, see Scheme 9), which have been studied on the Ag(110) and Pd(111). As with adsorbed monoalcohols on Ag surfaces, EG and PG desorb without reaction from clean Ag(110). (131, 132) When EG and PG are adsorbed on an O-covered Ag(110) surface, scission of O–H bonds and subsequent decomposition reactions are observed. Specifically, ethylene glycol decomposes to form ethylenedioxy (−OCH2CH2O−) below 180 K, and this intermediate is stable up to >300 K. (131) Sequential scission of C–H bonds (through a stable aldehydic alkoxide species) to produce glyoxal (CHOCHO) is observed at higher temperatures. (131) Similarly, PG decomposes by 215 K on O-covered Ag(110) to produce 1,2-propanedioxy, -OCH(CH3)CH2O-. (132) Propanedioxy decomposes above 300 K, but unlike EG forms a number of gas phase products including acetol (CH3COCH2OH), lactaldehyde (CH3CH(OH)CHO), and pyruvaldehyde or methylglyoxal (CH3CHOCHO). The observation of C–H scission reactions at both the primary and secondary C atoms of PG indicates that C–H scission processes are feasible at both primary and secondary C atoms. However, the earlier desorption temperature of the product acetol suggests that C–H scission at the secondary C atom is more facile. (132, 133) It is not entirely clear why partially dehydrogenated products such as acetol and lactaldehyde are observed from oxidation of PG, but similar products (particularly hydroxyacetaldehyde) are not observed from oxidation of EG.
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Simplified Mechanism for Propylene Glycol Decomposition on Pd(111) and O-Covered Ag(110)a
Scheme aFor simplicity, adsorbed atomic O and OH are not shown on the Ag(110) surface. Also not shown on Ag(110) is an observed pathway in the presence of excess oxygen that results in formation and decomposition of surface formate species.
On Pd(111), surface O is not needed for activation of O–H bonds in diols. (134) Both EG and PG decompose through proposed dialkoxide intermediates to form the adsorbed dialdehyde species glyoxal and methylglyoxal, respectively. However, in contrast to Ag(110), sequential C–H scission has not been observed; rather, evidence from vibrational spectroscopy points to the simultaneous scission of both C–H bonds. These C–H scission processes occur at higher temperature (∼240 K compared to 170 K) for PG than EG, suggesting that the presence of secondary alcohol function hinders the reaction. The weaker reactivity of secondary alkoxides has also been observed in the chemistry of monofunctional alcohols on Pd(111), (100, 101) but appears to contrast with the behavior on Ag(110) as described above. The simultaneous nature of the C–H scission processes on Pd(111) may be a result of adsorbate strain associated with sequential C–O scission, since the hydroxyl functions are on neighboring C atoms and aldehyde intermediates tend to interact strongly with Pd(111) in a flat-lying orientation. Both glyoxal and methylglyoxal desorb in small amounts above 250 K, but primarily undergo decarbonylation to produce CO, H2, and (in the case of methylglyoxal) methane.
The surface chemistry of EG has been investigated on several other pure metals surfaces such as Rh(100), Cu(110), and Mo(110). On Rh(100), EG decomposes through ethylenedioxy by around 150 K, although at high coverage some monodentate (−OCH2CH2OH) species are observed that have not been reported on Ag(110) or Pd(111). Ethylenedioxy decomposes through formation of an aldehydic alkoxide intermediate (CHOCH2O−) to ultimately form CO and H2. (135) On Cu(110), EG decomposes through ethylenedioxy to form the dialdehyde species glyoxal, similar to the chemistry on Ag and Pd. (136) The relatively early transition metal surface Mo(110) favors carbon–oxygen bond scission, forming ethylene with 85% selectivity. (137)
As discussed elsewhere in this article, using bimetallic surfaces often represents an important method for tuning selectivity in the reactions of oxygenates. To explore bimetallic effects, Chen and co-workers have investigated the chemistry of EG on Pt(111), Ni(111), and on different types of PtNi bimetallic surfaces. (138, 139) On these surfaces, EG undergoes complete decomposition to CO and H2. (138) Decomposition is limited on the surfaces terminated by Pt but extensive on the Ni-terminated surfaces Ni(111) and Ni/Pt(111). These trends are consistent with those observed for acrolein hydrogenation discussed in Section 2; tighter binding of the C3 oxygenate on Ni-terminated surface favors dehydrogenation over hydrogenation. The decomposition reactions again produce ethylenedioxy, which subsequently dehydrogenates all the way to CO through sequential C–H dissociation steps. (139, 140) PtFe and PtTi bimetallic surfaces have also been investigated, and it has been found that surface Fe or Ti atoms are necessary in these systems to observe substantial EG decomposition. (141)
These surface studies can potentially produce insights for understanding oxidation and C–C bond-breaking reactions of polyols on supported metal catalysts. Several recent reviews discuss various aspects of these reactions. (99, 142) Most recent studies have focused on oxidation of glycerol, but there have been a few studies of diol oxidation. For example, ethylene glycol can be oxidized over Ag catalysts to form glyoxal, (143) as expected based on the surface studies described above. Over Pt catalysts, ethylene glycol can be more extensively oxidized to produce glycolic acid. (144, 145) Propylene glycol can also be oxidized to either hydroxyacetone or hydroxypropanal and then on to further oxidation products. Interestingly, PtSn bimetallics have been found to result in high selectivities for secondary alcohol oxidation, though the mechanism for this effect is unclear. (146)
Considerable effort has recently been devoted to investigating the selective oxidation of glycerol, which can potentially produce a number of valuable products. Scheme 10 shows the typical reaction pathways observed over metal catalysts. One reaction of interest is the selective oxidation of the interior alcohol function to produce 1,3-dihydroxyacetone (DHA). The selectivity for this reaction is generally found to be low on Pt-group catalysts and supported Au catalysts, as oxidation of the primary hydroxyl groups is facile. The generally low selectivity toward DHA appears consistent with surface science studies described above, in that primary alcohol functions are at least as reactive as secondary alcohols. Interestingly, Bi-modified Pt catalysts have been found to increase selectivity to DHA to as high as 80%, even at high conversion. (147, 148) The optimal Bi loading has been determined to be equivalent to 0.33 ML. A similar effect of modifiers such as Bi and Pb was also detected for propylene glycol oxidation, where the initial selectivity to oxidation of the secondary alcohol function was higher; interestingly, however, the modifier also promoted the further oxidation to pyruvic acid. (149) Bismuth often functions as a site-blocking agent on metal surfaces, and may help prevent multiple coordination of polyols on the Pt surface. (147) However, it is not clear why reaction of the secondary hydroxyl function would be preferred, and detailed surface-level studies of Bi-modified surfaces could shed considerable light on the mechanism. The reaction is most favored at low pH, and interactions between the acidic solution and the reaction intermediates may play a key role in producing intermediates that favor secondary alcohol oxidation. (150) Such a study would be useful because Bi-modified catalysts lose activity over time. (151) The activity decrease has been attributed to blocking of the active sites by another reaction product, glyceric acid (GA). (151) Understanding the mechanism by which Bi promotes high selectivity to DHA would be useful in designing new catalysts that could better maintain activity over time.
Scheme 10
Scheme 10. Oxidation Pathways of Glycerol on Metal Catalysts
Over supported Pd, Pt, Rh, and Au catalysts, reaction of the primary alcohol function appears as expected to be preferred, and much research effort has focused on studying glycerol oxidation to glyceric acid. (152-155) A similar selectivity pattern is also observed for propylene glycol oxidation over Au catalysts, with oxidation of the primary alcohol being strongly preferred. (156) In a recent study, Pd, Au, and Pt supported on graphite and carbon were investigated as catalysts. Au was inactive in the absence of base, whereas Pd and Pt produced C1 products. Increasing O2 pressure improved reactivity significantly, and adding base resulted in much higher reactivities and improved selectivities toward C3 products. For 1%Au/C, near-perfect selectivity to glyceric acid could be achieved. (154) For Pd and Pt, selectivities were improved, but were not as high, and activities improved as well.
Under most reaction conditions investigated to date, the oxidation of the primary alcohol function to form glyceraldehyde is rapidly followed by further oxidation to glyceric acid. In a kinetic investigation over Au catalysts, the reaction pathways to DHA and glyceric acid were found to be purely parallel; that is, selectivity between the two pathways was dictated by the position of initial oxidation and not by interconversion of DHA and glyceraldehyde. (157) The optimized reaction conditions for glyceric acid production are noticeably different than for DHA production, with high-pH conditions associated with the highest glyceric acid yield. (150) A number of investigations have focused on how catalyst supports, synthesis methods, and reaction conditions can be used to promote selectivity. (156, 158) The primary nonselective pathway proceeds through the further oxidation of glyceric acid to tartronic acid, that is, via reaction of the other primary alcohol function. Supported Au catalysts have generally been found to be more selective toward glyceric acid, with larger Au particles (having a relatively low concentration of defect sites) generally having higher stability and selectivity but reduced activity. (152, 159, 160)
Bimetallic catalysts have also been investigated for glyceric acid production, particularly combinations of Pd, Pt, and Au. Improvements in selectivity and/or activity can be observed as a result of using the two metal components in tandem, showing a clear synergistic effect. (153, 161-163) In a related reaction, sorbitol oxidation, Pd, Au, and Pt by themselves have been found to be poor catalysts, but PdAu and PtAu show greatly improved activity and produce mono-oxidized products with good selectivity. (164) In general, the mechanism for these bimetallic effects are poorly understood, and would benefit from surface-level investigation.
The hydrogenolysis of glycerol and other alcohols is also of great interest for production of chemicals and fuels. (6) Hydrogenolysis reactions can result in either C–C or C–O scission; for the purposes of this Perspective we will focus on the latter, which results in less oxygen-rich intermediates that are often of greater interest for applications. Surface studies of polyol C–O hydrogenolysis have thus far been rare. This is in part because of the complexity of the reaction system: the hydrogenolysis reaction requires two steps, one an acid- or base-catalyzed dehydration and the second a metal-catalyzed hydrogenation. Many catalyst systems that show promise for efficient glycerol hydrogenolysis, such as supported Cu, have not yet been characterized extensively with surface science techniques. (165) Coll et al. have used DFT calculations to investigate intermediate structures for formation of propylene glycol (PG) and 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) on the (111) surfaces of Ni, Pd, and Rh (Scheme 11). (166) They found that the metal surface can affect the initial acid–base dehydration step by stabilizing the reaction intermediates. Coll et al. tracked six dehydration pathways, with four of those leading to PG and two to 1,3-PDO. Surface-adsorbed intermediates leading to PG were in general more stable than those leading to 1,3-PDO, consistent with findings that selectivity to 1,3-PDO is generally low. However, on Rh(111) the energy difference between 1,3-PDO-forming and PG-forming intermediates was much smaller, in line with the observation that supported Rh catalysts have the highest selectivity to 1,3-propanediol among the metals investigated. (167, 168) Finally, Pd(111) was found to stabilize intermediates more weakly than the other two surfaces, perhaps providing an explanation for its lower observed activity for the hydrogenolysis reaction. (169)
Scheme 11
Scheme 11. Reaction Paths for Glycerol Hydrogenolysis to Diols (Adapted with Permission from Ref 166. Copyright 2011 RSC Publishing)
Recent attention has been focused on the use of supported metal catalysts that have an “integrated” acid function. For example, Miyazawa et al. investigated the hydrogenolysis of glycerol to PG with an acid catalyst (Amberlyst, H2SO4, HCl) in concert with a metal catalyst from the group Ru, Rh, Pt, Pd. Ru with Amberlyst was the best combination. Interestingly, the Ru catalyst shows some activity for dehydration from the Ru–OH group, which leads to production of 1,3-PDO. (170) Dumesic and co-workers have studied glycerol hydrogenolysis on Pt, Re, and PtRe catalysts, finding that the Re component improves activity as well as selectivity toward 1,3-PDO. They proposed a direct role for the Re component, suggesting that Re–OH species could function to catalyze direct cleavage of C–OH bonds. (171) Modification of Rh catalysts with Re, Mo, or W species has also been observed to improve activity dramatically, and improves selectivity to 1,3-PDO as well. Re appears to be the most effective among the modifiers. (172, 173) Other researchers have investigated supported Pt/WO3 catalysts that perhaps proceed via a similar mechanism, since both the Pt and the WO3 must be present and be in intimate contact for the reaction to occur. (174)
Conclusions and Future Outlook
The widespread interest in developing catalysts for production of renewable fuels and chemicals will continue to drive research activity toward the identification of chemoselective catalysts for highly functional oxygenates. While much of the research to this point has focused on “trial-and-error” methodology to obtain a general understanding of reactivity trends, some of the examples described above show that fundamental surface science and computational investigations can potentially help guide catalyst design. Studies on model catalyst surfaces have shown close general agreement with results from catalysis for reactions such as α,β-unsaturated aldehyde hydrogenation, furfural hydrogenation, and functional alcohol oxidation, as highlighted above. Recently, such model studies have been used to successfully guide rational catalyst design for monofunctional reagents, and extension to multifunctional reagents appears possible. (56, 175-177) Because similar surface intermediates are produced in reactions such as acrolein hydrogenation and glycerol hydrogenolysis, there is the potential for insights from the studies of α,β-unsaturated aldehyde hydrogenation to be applied toward the comparably less-studied glycerol hydrogenolysis reaction.
In the design of improved catalysts for highly functional oxygenates, bimetallic and multimetallic surfaces will continue to be a major focus. As shown above, in many cases studied so far the main result of the modifying metal is to strengthen or weaken the adsorption of the oxygenate without a dramatic alteration of the preferred adsorption geometry. While such changes in binding energy can have powerful effects on catalysis, a more robust approach would be multifunctional in nature. For example, individual catalyst components would interact with a specific functional group to control the adsorption geometry of the reagent and drastically alter the potential energy landscape. Some clues toward pursuing this goal may come from bimetallics such as PtBi for glycerol oxidation, where the Bi may serve mainly as a site-blocking species to alter the adsorption geometry of glycerol. In general, developing control over the geometry of the reagent-surface complex is a key step in being able to control reactivity.
One relatively unexplored approach toward the end of controlling adsorption geometry is the use of organic surface modifiers, which in principle can interact with oxygenated reagents (e.g., through hydrophobic/hydrophilic or H-bonding interactions) to change adsorbate geometry and thus selectivity. The effectiveness of such a strategy has been convincingly demonstrated in the asymmetric hydrogenation of oxygenates such as ethyl pyruvate. (178) Chiral modifiers adsorbed on Pt group catalysts have been shown in many investigations to strongly promote enantioselectivity toward a specified handedness in the product molecule. (179) This effect appears to be due to a direct interaction between the modifier and the reagent that creates a binding geometry favorable toward production of a single enantiomer. Such ideas should be extendable to efforts to control the chemoselectivity of reactions of highly oxygenated compounds.
Author Information
Corresponding Author
J. Will Medlin - Renewable and Sustainable Energy Institute, Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0424, United States;  Email: will.medlin@colorado.edu
Funding
Support from the National Science Foundation through Grant CBET-0828767 and from the Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences through Grant DE-SC0005239 is gratefully acknowledged.
References
This article references 179 other publications.
1Corma, A.; Iborra, S.; Velty, A. Chem. Rev. 2007, 107, 2411– 2502
Google Scholar
2Chheda, J. N.; Huber, G. W.; Dumesic, J. A. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 7164– 7183
Google Scholar
3Ma, Z.; Zaera, F. Surf. Sci. Rep. 2006, 61, 229– 281
Google Scholar
4Schaal, M. T.; Hyman, M. P.; Rangan, M.; Ma, S.; Williams, C. T.; Monnier, J. R.; Medlin, J. W. Surf. Sci. 2009, 603, 690– 696
Google Scholar
5Loh, A. S.; Davis, S. W.; Medlin, J. W. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 5507– 5514
Google Scholar
6Shanks, B. H. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2010, 49, 10212– 10217
Google Scholar
7Brebu, M.; Vasile, C. Cellul. Chem. Technol. 2010, 44, 353– 363
Google Scholar
8Ponec, V. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 149, 27– 48
Google Scholar
9Gallezot, P.; Richard, D. Catal. Rev.-Sci. Eng. 1998, 40, 81– 126
Google Scholar
10Claus, P. Top. Catal. 1998, 5, 51– 62
Google Scholar
11Maki-Arvela, P.; Hajek, J.; Salmi, T.; Murzin, D. Y. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 292, 1– 49
Google Scholar
12Claus, P.; Önal, Y. Regioselective Hydrogenations. In Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis; Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA: Weinheim, Germany, 2008.
Google Scholar
13Grass, M.; Rioux, R.; Somorjai, G. Catal. Lett. 2009, 128, 1– 8
Google Scholar
14Murillo, L. E.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 2412– 2420
Google Scholar
15Brown, N. F.; Barteau, M. A. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 2269– 2278
Google Scholar
16Brown, N. F.; Barteau, M. A. Langmuir 1992, 8, 862– 869
Google Scholar
17Henderson, M. A.; Radloff, P. L.; White, J. M.; Mims, C. A. J. Phys. Chem. 1988, 92, 4111– 4119
Google Scholar
18McCabe, R. W.; Dimaggio, C. L.; Madix, R. J. J. Phys. Chem. 1985, 89, 854– 861
Google Scholar
19Avery, N. R. Surf. Sci. 1983, 125, 771– 786
Google Scholar
20Cremer, P. S.; Su, X. C.; Shen, Y. R.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 2942– 2949
Google Scholar
21Neurock, M.; Pallassana, V.; van Santen, R. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 1150– 1153
Google Scholar
22de Jesus, J. C.; Zaera, F. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 1999, 138, 237– 240
Google Scholar
23de Jesus, J. C.; Zaera, F. Surf. Sci. 1999, 430, 99– 115
Google Scholar
24Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P. J. Catal. 1995, 152, 217– 236
Google Scholar
25Shekhar, R.; Barteau, M. A. Surf. Sci. 1994, 319, 298– 314
Google Scholar
26Davis, J. L.; Barteau, M. A. J. Mol. Catal. 1992, 77, 109– 124
Google Scholar
27Marshall, S. T.; Horiuchi, C. M.; Zhang, W. Y.; Medlin, J. W. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 20406– 20412
Google Scholar
28Haubrich, J.; Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Krupski, A.; Becker, C.; Wandeltt, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 13947– 13967
Google Scholar
29Haubrich, J.; Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Jugnet, Y.; Krupski, A.; Becker, C.; Wandelt, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 3701– 3718
Google Scholar
30Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Vigne, F.; Sautet, P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 1316– 1323
Google Scholar
31Haubrich, J.; Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Jugnet, Y.; Sautet, P.; Krupski, A.; Becker, C.; Wandelt, K. Chem. Phys. Lett. 2006, 433, 188– 192
Google Scholar
32Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P. Chem. Phys. Lett. 2005, 405, 434– 439
Google Scholar
33Loffreda, D.; Jugnet, Y.; Delbecq, F.; Bertolini, J. C.; Sautet, P. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 9085– 9093
Google Scholar
34Haubrich, J.; Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Jugnet, Y.; Becker, C.; Wandelt, K. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 1073– 1084
Google Scholar
35Haubrich, J.; Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Jugnet, Y.; Krupski, A.; Becker, C.; Wandelt, K. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2011, 13, 6000– 6009
Google Scholar
36Calaza, F.; Stacchiola, D.; Neurock, M.; Tysoe, W. T. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 2202– 2207
Google Scholar
37Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Vigné, F.; Sautet, P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 1316– 1323
Google Scholar
38Loffreda, D.; Delbecq, F.; Vigné, F.; Sautet, P. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 8978– 8980
Google Scholar
39Alvarez-Rodriguez, J.; Guerrero-Ruiz, A.; Arcoya, A.; Rodriguez-Ramos, I. Catal. Lett. 2009, 129, 376– 382
Google Scholar
40Beccat, P.; Bertolini, J. C.; Gauthier, Y.; Massardier, J.; Ruiz, P. J. Catal. 1990, 126, 451– 456
Google Scholar
41Englisch, M.; Ranade, V. S.; Lercher, J. A. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 1997, 121, 69– 80
Google Scholar
42Hirschl, R.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P.; Hafner, J. J. Catal. 2003, 217, 354– 366
Google Scholar
43Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P. J. Catal. 2003, 220, 115– 126
Google Scholar
44Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P. Catal. Lett. 1994, 28, 89– 98
Google Scholar
45Murillo, L. E.; Goda, A. M.; Chen, J. G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 7101– 7105
Google Scholar
46Kitchin, J. R.; Norskov, J. K.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Chem. Phys. 2004, 120, 10240– 10246
Google Scholar
47Kitchin, J. R.; Khan, N. A.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G.; Yakshinksiy, B.; Madey, T. E. Surf. Sci. 2003, 544, 295– 308
Google Scholar
48Murillo, L. E.; Menning, C. A.; Chen, J. G. J. Catal. 2009, 268, 335– 342
Google Scholar
49Hutchings, G. J.; King, F.; Okoye, I. P.; Rochester, C. H. Appl. Catal., A 1992, 83, L7– L13
Google Scholar
50Hutchings, G. J.; King, F.; Okoye, I. P.; Padley, M. B.; Rochester, C. H. J. Catal. 1994, 148, 464– 469
Google Scholar
51Chiu, M. E.; Kyriakou, G.; Williams, F. J.; Watson, D. J.; Tikhov, M. S.; Lambert, R. M. Chem. Commun. 2006, 1283– 1285
Google Scholar
52Chiu, M. E.; Watson, D. J.; Kyriakou, G.; Tikhov, M. S.; Lambert, R. M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2006, 45, 7530– 7534
Google Scholar
53Marshall, S. T.; O’Brien, M.; Oetter, B.; Corpuz, A.; Richards, R. R.; Schwartz, D. K.; Medlin, J. W. Nat. Mater. 2010, 9, 853– 858
Google Scholar
54Mohr, C.; Hofmeister, H.; Radnik, J.; Claus, P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 1905– 1911
Google Scholar
55He, X.; Chen, Z. X.; Kang, G. J. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 12325– 12330
Google Scholar
56Lee, I.; Delbecq, F.; Morales, R.; Albiter, M. A.; Zaera, F. Nat. Mater. 2009, 8, 132– 138
Google Scholar
57Christopher, P.; Linic, S. ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 78– 83
Google Scholar
58Brandt, K.; Chiu, M. E.; Watson, D. J.; Tikhov, M. S.; Lambert, R. M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 17286– 17290
Google Scholar
59Bron, M.; Teschner, D.; Knop-Gericke, A.; Steinhauer, B.; Scheybal, A.; Hävecker, M.; Wang, D.; Födisch, R.; Hönicke, D.; Wootsch, A.; Schlögl, R.; Claus, P. J. Catal. 2005, 234, 37– 47
Google Scholar
60Kliewer, C. J.; Bieri, M.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 9958– 9966
Google Scholar
61Tong, X. L.; Ma, Y.; Li, Y. D. Appl. Catal., A 2010, 385, 1– 13
Google Scholar
62Nikolla, E.; Roman-Leshkov, Y.; Moliner, M.; Davis, M. E. ACS Catal. 2011, 1, 408– 410
Google Scholar
63Bradley, M. K.; Robinson, J.; Woodruff, D. P. Surf. Sci. 2010, 604, 920– 925
Google Scholar
64Knight, M. J.; Allegretti, F.; Kroger, E. A.; Polcik, M.; Lamont, C. L. A.; Woodruff, D. P. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 2524– 2531
Google Scholar
65Caldwell, T. E.; Land, D. P. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 7869– 7875
Google Scholar
66Ormerod, R. M.; Baddeley, C. J.; Hardacre, C.; Lambert, R. M. Surf. Sci. 1996, 360, 1– 9
Google Scholar
67Caldwell, T. E.; Abdelrehim, I. M.; Land, D. P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 907– 908
Google Scholar
68Horiuchi, C. M.; Medlin, J. W. Langmuir 2010, 26, 13320– 13332
Google Scholar
69Medlin, J. W.; Horiuchi, C. M.; Rangan, M. Top. Catal. 2010, 53, 1179– 1184
Google Scholar
70Monnier, J. R.; Medlin, J. W.; Kuo, Y.-J. Appl. Catal., A 2000, 194–195, 463– 474
Google Scholar
71Pang, S. H.; Medlin, J. W. ACS Catal. 2011,  DOI: 10.1021/cs200226h
Google Scholar
72Zhang, W.; Zhu, Y. L.; Niu, S.; Li, Y. W. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2011, 335, 71– 81
Google Scholar
73Zhu, L.; Bao, S.; Xu, C. Y.; Xu, Y. B. Surf. Sci. 1992, 260, 267– 270
Google Scholar
74Linic, S.; Barteau, M. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 8086– 8087
Google Scholar
75Merlo, A. B.; Vetere, V.; Ruggera, J. F.; Casella, M. L. Catal. Commun. 2009, 10, 1665– 1669
Google Scholar
76Nakagawa, Y.; Tomishige, K. Catal. Commun. 2010, 12, 154– 156
Google Scholar
77Solomon, J. L.; Madix, R. J.; Stohr, J. J. Chem. Phys. 1991, 94, 4012– 4023
Google Scholar
78Mulligan, A.; Johnston, S. M.; Miller, G.; Dhanak, V.; Kadodwala, M. Surf. Sci. 2003, 541, 3– 13
Google Scholar
79Sitthisa, S.; Sooknoi, T.; Ma, Y. G.; Balbuena, P. B.; Resasco, D. E. J. Catal. 2011, 277, 1– 13
Google Scholar
80Sitthisa, S.; Resasco, D. E. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 784– 791
Google Scholar
81Casanova, O.; Iborra, S.; Corma, A. ChemSusChem 2009, 2, 1138– 1144
Google Scholar
82Casanova, O.; Iborra, S.; Corma, A. J. Catal. 2009, 265, 109– 116
Google Scholar
83Davis, S. E.; Houk, L. R.; Tamargo, E. C.; Datye, A. K.; Davis, R. J. Catal. Today 2011, 160, 55– 60
Google Scholar
84Serrano-Ruiz, J. C.; Dumesic, J. A. Energy Environ. Sci. 2011, 4, 83– 99
Google Scholar
85Di Blasi, C.; Branca, C.; Galgano, A. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2010, 49, 2658– 2671
Google Scholar
86Horiuchi, C. M.; Israel, B. T.; Medlin, J. W. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 14900– 14907
Google Scholar
87Horiuchi, C. M.; Medlin, J. W. Surf. Sci. 2010, 604, 98– 105
Google Scholar
88Bond, J. Q.; Alonso, D. M.; Wang, D.; West, R. M.; Dumesic, J. A. Science 2010, 327, 1110– 1114
Google Scholar
89Upare, P. P.; Lee, J.-M.; Hwang, D. W.; Halligudi, S. B.; Hwang, Y. K.; Chang, J.-S. J. Ind. Eng. Chem. 2011, 17, 287– 292
Google Scholar
90Manzer, L. E. Appl. Catal., A 2004, 272, 249– 256
Google Scholar
91Hong, U. G.; Lee, J.; Hwang, S.; Song, I. K. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 332– 338
Google Scholar
92Hong, U. G.; Hwang, S.; Seo, J. G.; Yi, J.; Song, I. K. Catal. Lett. 2010, 138, 28– 33
Google Scholar
93Delhomme, C.; Weuster-Botz, D.; Kuhn, F. E. Green Chem. 2009, 11, 13– 26
Google Scholar
94Deshpande, R. M.; Buwa, V. V.; Rode, C. V.; Chaudhari, R. V.; Mills, P. L. Catal. Commun. 2002, 3, 269– 274
Google Scholar
95Zhou, C.-H.; Beltramini, J. N.; Fan, Y.-X.; Lu, G. Q. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2008, 37, 527– 549
Google Scholar
96Kobayashi, H.; Ito, Y.; Komanoya, T.; Hosaka, Y.; Dhepe, P. L.; Kasai, K.; Hara, K.; Fukuoka, A. Green Chem. 2011, 13, 326– 333
Google Scholar
97Bozell, J. J.; Petersen, G. R. Green Chem. 2010, 12, 539– 554
Google Scholar
98Werpy, T.; Petersen, G., Eds.; Top Value Added Chemicals From Biomass; Report for Office of Biomass Program, U.S. Department of Energy; U.S. Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service: Springfield, VA, 2004; Vol. 1, pp 1– 76.
Google Scholar
99Zhou, C. H. C.; Beltramini, J. N.; Fan, Y. X.; Lu, G. Q. M. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2008, 37, 527– 549
Google Scholar
100Davis, J. L.; Barteau, M. A. Surf. Sci. 1987, 187, 387– 406
Google Scholar
101Davis, J. L.; Barteau, M. A. Surf. Sci. 1990, 235, 235– 248
Google Scholar
102Houtman, C.; Barteau, M. A. Langmuir 1990, 6, 1558– 1566
Google Scholar
103Houtman, C. J.; Barteau, M. A. J. Catal. 1991, 130, 528– 546
Google Scholar
104Christmann, K.; Demuth, J. E. J. Chem. Phys. 1982, 76, 6308– 6317
Google Scholar
105Christmann, K.; Demuth, J. E. J. Chem. Phys. 1982, 76, 6318– 6327
Google Scholar
106Solymosi, F.; Berko, A.; Tarnoczi, T. I. Surf. Sci. 1984, 141, 533– 548
Google Scholar
107Bhattacharya, A. K.; Chesters, M. A.; Pemble, M. E.; Sheppard, N. Surf. Sci. 1988, 206, L845– L850
Google Scholar
108Rebholz, M.; Kruse, N. J. Chem. Phys. 1991, 95, 7745– 7759
Google Scholar
109Barros, R. B.; Garcia, A. R.; Ilharco, L. M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 11186– 11193
Google Scholar
110Benziger, J. B.; Madix, R. J. J. Catal. 1980, 65, 36– 48
Google Scholar
111Gates, S. M.; Russell, J. N.; Yates, J. T. Surf. Sci. 1986, 171, 111– 134
Google Scholar
112Mavrikakis, M.; Barteau, M. A. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 1998, 131, 135– 147
Google Scholar
113Lee, A. F.; Gawthrope, D. E.; Hart, N. J.; Wilson, K. Surf. Sci. 2004, 548, 200– 208
Google Scholar
114Kruse, N.; Rebholz, M.; Matolin, V.; Chuah, G. K.; Block, J. H. Surf. Sci. 1990, 238, L457– L462
Google Scholar
115Solymosi, F.; Berko, A.; Toth, Z. Surf. Sci. 1993, 285, 197– 208
Google Scholar
116Bare, S. R.; Stroscio, J. A.; Ho, W. Surf. Sci. 1985, 150, 399– 418
Google Scholar
117Li, M.; Guo, W. Y.; Jiang, R. B.; Zhao, L. M.; Shan, H. H. Langmuir 2010, 26, 1879– 1888
Google Scholar
118Greeley, J.; Mavrikakis, M. J. Catal. 2002, 208, 291– 300
Google Scholar
119Wachs, I. E.; Madix, R. J. Surf. Sci. 1978, 76, 531– 558
Google Scholar
120Bowker, M.; Madix, R. J. Surf. Sci. 1980, 95, 190– 206
Google Scholar
121Bowker, M.; Madix, R. J. Surf. Sci. 1981, 102, 542– 565
Google Scholar
122Mallat, T.; Baiker, A. Catal. Today 1994, 19, 247– 283
Google Scholar
123Mallat, T.; Baiker, A. Chem. Rev. 2004, 104, 3037– 3058
Google Scholar
124Keresszegi, C.; Bürgi, T.; Mallat, T.; Baiker, A. J. Catal. 2002, 211, 244– 251
Google Scholar
125Jiang, X.; Chang, S.-C.; Weaver, M. J. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1993, 89, 223– 228
Google Scholar
126Herrero, E.; Fernández-Vega, A.; Feliu, J. M.; Aldaz, A. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1993, 350, 73– 88
Google Scholar
127Hamm, U. W.; Kramer, D.; Zhai, R. S.; Kolb, D. M. Electrochim. Acta 1998, 43, 2969– 2978
Google Scholar
128Abad, A.; Concepcion, P.; Corma, A.; Garcia, H. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2005, 44, 4066– 4069
Google Scholar
129Hoelderich, W. F. Catal. Today 2000, 62, 115– 130
Google Scholar
130Pestryakov, A. N.; Lunin, V. V.; Devochkin, A. N.; Petrov, L. A.; Bogdanchikova, N. E.; Petranovskii, V. P. Appl. Catal., A 2002, 227, 125– 130
Google Scholar
131Capote, A. J.; Madix, R. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1989, 111, 3570– 3577
Google Scholar
132Ayre, C. R.; Madix, R. J. Surf. Sci. 1994, 303, 279– 296
Google Scholar
133Ayre, C. R.; Madix, R. J. Surf. Sci. 1994, 303, 297– 311
Google Scholar
134Griffin, M. B.; Jorgensen, E. L.; Medlin, J. W. Surf. Sci. 2010, 2010, 1558– 1564
Google Scholar
135Jansen, M. M. M.; Nieuwenhuys, B. E.; Niemantsverdriet, H. ChemSusChem 2009, 2, 883– 886
Google Scholar
136Bowker, M.; Madix, R. J. Surf. Sci. 1982, 116, 549– 572
Google Scholar
137Queeney, K. T.; Arumainayagam, C. R.; Weldon, M. K.; Friend, C. M.; Blumberg, M. Q. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 3896– 3904
Google Scholar
138Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. G. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 1686– 1694
Google Scholar
139Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. G. Surf. Sci. 2008, 602, 3578– 3587
Google Scholar
140Stottlemyer, A. L.; Ren, H.; Chen, J. G. Surf. Sci. 2009, 603, 2630– 2638
Google Scholar
141Skoplyak, O.; Barteau, M. A.; Chen, J. G. G. Catal. Today 2009, 147, 150– 157
Google Scholar
142Brandner, A.; Lehnert, K.; Bienholz, A.; Lucas, M.; Claus, P. Top. Catal. 2009, 52, 278– 287
Google Scholar
143Kurina, L. N.; Azarenko, E. A.; Vodyankina, O. V. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1998, 63, 355– 358
Google Scholar
144Khan, M. I. A.; Miwa, Y.; Morita, S.; Okada, J. Chem. Pharm. Bull. 1983, 31, 1141– 1150
Google Scholar
145Khan, M. I. A.; Miwa, Y.; Morita, S.; Okada, J. Chem. Pharm. Bull. 1983, 31, 1827– 1832
Google Scholar
146Pinxt, H.; Kuster, B. F. M.; Marin, G. B. Appl. Catal., A 2000, 191, 45– 54
Google Scholar
147Kimura, H.; Tsuto, K.; Wakisaka, T.; Kazumi, Y.; Inaya, Y. Appl. Catal., A 1993, 96, 217– 228
Google Scholar
148Kimura, H. Appl. Catal., A 1993, 105, 147– 158
Google Scholar
149Tsujino, T.; Ohigashi, S.; Sugiyama, S.; Kawashiro, K.; Hayashi, H. J. Mol. Catal. 1992, 71, 25– 35
Google Scholar
150Garcia, R.; Besson, M.; Gallezot, P. Appl. Catal., A 1995, 127, 165– 176
Google Scholar
151Wörz, N.; Brandner, A.; Claus, P. J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 1164– 1172
Google Scholar
152Porta, F.; Prati, L. J. Catal. 2004, 224, 397– 403
Google Scholar
153Dimitratos, N.; Lopez-Sanchez, J.; Lennon, D.; Porta, F.; Prati, L.; Villa, A. Catal. Lett. 2006, 108, 147– 153
Google Scholar
154Carrettin, S.; McMorn, P.; Johnston, P.; Griffin, K.; Kiely, C. J.; Hutchings, G. J. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2003, 5, 1329– 1336
Google Scholar
155Rodrigues, E. G.; Carabineiro, S. A. C.; Chen, X. W.; Delgado, J. A. J.; Figueiredo, J. L.; Pereira, M. F. R.; Orfao, J. J. M. Catal. Lett. 2011, 141, 420– 431
Google Scholar
156Demirel, S.; Kern, P.; Lucas, M.; Claus, P. Catal. Today 2007, 122, 292– 300
Google Scholar
157Demirel, S.; Lucas, M.; Wärnå, J.; Salmi, T.; Murzin, D.; Claus, P. Top. Catal. 2007, 44, 299– 305
Google Scholar
158Demirel-Gülen, S.; Lucas, M.; Claus, P. Catal. Today 2005, 102–103, 166– 172
Google Scholar
159Ketchie, W. C.; Fang, Y.-L.; Wong, M. S.; Murayama, M.; Davis, R. J. J. Catal. 2007, 250, 94– 101
Google Scholar
160Carrettin, S.; McMorn, P.; Johnston, P.; Griffin, K.; Kiely, C. J.; Attard, G. A.; Hutchings, G. J. Top. Catal. 2004, 27, 131– 136
Google Scholar
161Demirel, S.; Lehnert, K.; Lucas, M.; Claus, P. Appl. Catal., B 2007, 70, 637– 643
Google Scholar
162Dimitratos, N.; Messi, C.; Porta, F.; Prati, L.; Villa, A. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 2006, 256, 21– 28
Google Scholar
163Prati, L.; Villa, A.; Campione, C.; Spontoni, P. Top. Catal. 2007, 44, 319– 324
Google Scholar
164Dimitratos, N.; Porta, F.; Prati, L.; Villa, A. Catal. Lett. 2005, 99, 181– 185
Google Scholar
165Bienholz, A.; Hofmann, H.; Claus, P. Appl. Catal., A 2011, 391, 153– 157
Google Scholar
166Coll, D.; Delbecq, F.; Aray, Y.; Sautet, P. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2011, 13, 1448– 1456
Google Scholar
167Chaminand, J.; Djakovitch, L.; Gallezot, P.; Marion, P.; Pinel, C.; Rosier, C. Green Chem. 2004, 6, 359– 361
Google Scholar
168Miyazawa, T.; Koso, S.; Kunimori, K.; Tomishige, K. Appl. Catal., A 2007, 329, 30– 35
Google Scholar
169Dasari, M. A.; Kiatsimkul, P. P.; Sutterlin, W. R.; Suppes, G. J. Appl. Catal., A 2005, 281, 225– 231
Google Scholar
170Miyazawa, T.; Kusunoki, Y.; Kunimori, K.; Tomishige, K. J. Catal. 2006, 240, 213– 221
Google Scholar
171Daniel, O. M.; DeLaRiva, A.; Kunkes, E. L.; Datye, A. K.; Dumesic, J. A.; Davis, R. J. ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 1107– 1114
Google Scholar
172Shimao, A.; Koso, S.; Ueda, N.; Shinmi, Y.; Furikado, I.; Tomishige, K. Chem. Lett. 2009, 38, 540– 541
Google Scholar
173Shinmi, Y.; Koso, S.; Kubota, T.; Nakagawa, Y.; Tomishige, K. Appl. Catal., B 2010, 94, 318– 326
Google Scholar
174Kurosaka, T.; Maruyama, H.; Naribayashi, I.; Sasaki, Y. Catal. Commun. 2008, 9, 1360– 1363
Google Scholar
175Christopher, P.; Linic, S. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 11264– 11265
Google Scholar
176Greeley, J.; Stephens, I. E. L.; Bondarenko, A. S.; Johansson, T. P.; Hansen, H. A.; Jaramillo, T. F.; Rossmeisl, J.; Chorkendorff, I.; Norskov, J. K. Nat. Chem. 2009, 1, 552– 556
Google Scholar
177Studt, F.; Abild-Pedersen, F.; Bligaard, T.; Sorensen, R. Z.; Christensen, C. H.; Norskov, J. K. Science 2008, 320, 1320– 1322
Google Scholar
178Mallat, T.; Orglmeister, E.; Baiker, A. Chem. Rev. 2007, 107, 4863– 4890
Google Scholar
179Schmidt, E.; Kleist, W.; Krumeich, F.; Mallat, T.; Baiker, A. Chem.—Eur. J 2010, 16, 2181– 2192
Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
3
Mentioning
103
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 105 publications.
Jingjie Luo, Changhai Liang. Rhenium in Heterogeneous Catalysis: A Rising Star for Hydrogenation Reactions. ACS Catalysis 2024, 14 (9) , 7032-7049. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.4c00298
Chunyan Yang, Zirui Dao, Siyi Pu, Wei Yan, Ying Wang, Di Tian, Chungang Min, Jie Zhao, Changfu Zhuang. Ni–Al2O3/CN Nanocatalysts for Selective Hydrogenation of Furfural. ACS Applied Nano Materials 2024, 7 (6) , 6429-6441. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.4c00153
Sudakar Padmanaban, Gunniya Hariyanandam Gunasekar, Sungho Yoon. Direct Heterogenization of the Ru-Macho Catalyst for the Chemoselective Hydrogenation of α,β-Unsaturated Carbonyl Compounds. Inorganic Chemistry 2021, 60 (10) , 6881-6888. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.0c03681
R. R. Dirgarini J. N. Subagyono, Marc Marshall, W. Roy Jackson, Anthony R. Auxilio, Yi Fei, Alan L. Chaffee. Upgrading Microalgal Biocrude Using NiMo/Al-SBA-15 as a Catalyst. Energy & Fuels 2020, 34 (4) , 4618-4631. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.9b04171
Jingcheng Wu, Xinghua Zhang, Qiang Chen, Lungang Chen, Qiying Liu, Chenguang Wang, Longlong Ma. One-Pot Hydrogenation of Furfural into Tetrahydrofurfuryl Alcohol under Ambient Conditions over PtNi Alloy Catalyst. Energy & Fuels 2020, 34 (2) , 2178-2184. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.9b02811
Xing Gao, Hua Dai, Lilin Peng, Di Lu, Xiaoyue Wan, Chunmei Zhou, Jianwei Zheng, Yihu Dai, Hongming Wang, Yanhui Yang. Effect of Hydrotalcites Interlayer Water on Pt-Catalyzed Aqueous-Phase Selective Hydrogenation of Cinnamaldehyde. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2020, 12 (2) , 2516-2524. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b19160
Yueqiang Cao, Bo Chen, Jonathan Guerrero-Sánchez, Ilkeun Lee, Xinggui Zhou, Noboru Takeuchi, Francisco Zaera. Controlling Selectivity in Unsaturated Aldehyde Hydrogenation Using Single-Site Alloy Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2019, 9 (10) , 9150-9157. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b02547
Shuo Chen, Robert Wojcieszak, Franck Dumeignil, Eric Marceau, Sébastien Royer. How Catalysts and Experimental Conditions Determine the Selective Hydroconversion of Furfural and 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural. Chemical Reviews 2018, 118 (22) , 11023-11117. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.8b00134
Georgios Dodekatos, Stefan Schünemann, Harun Tüysüz. Recent Advances in Thermo-, Photo-, and Electrocatalytic Glycerol Oxidation. ACS Catalysis 2018, 8 (7) , 6301-6333. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b01317
Patrick D. Coan, Lucas D. Ellis, Michael B. Griffin, Daniel K. Schwartz, J. Will Medlin. Enhancing Cooperativity in Bifunctional Acid–Pd Catalysts with Carboxylic Acid-Functionalized Organic Monolayers. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2018, 122 (12) , 6637-6647. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b12442
Yujung Dong, Francisco Zaera. Selectivity in Hydrogenation Catalysis with Unsaturated Aldehydes: Parallel versus Sequential Steps. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2018, 9 (6) , 1301-1306. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.8b00173
Matthew M. Montemore, Matthijs A. van Spronsen, Robert J. Madix, Cynthia M. Friend. O2 Activation by Metal Surfaces: Implications for Bonding and Reactivity on Heterogeneous Catalysts. Chemical Reviews 2018, 118 (5) , 2816-2862. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.7b00217
Francisco Zaera . The Surface Chemistry of Metal-Based Hydrogenation Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2017, 7 (8) , 4947-4967. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b01368
Remedios Cortese, Roberto Schimmenti, Francesco Ferrante, Antonio Prestianni, Donato Decarolis, and Dario Duca . Graph-Based Analysis of Ethylene Glycol Decomposition on a Palladium Cluster. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2017, 121 (25) , 13606-13616. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b00850
Szu-Hui Li, Zi-Xian Yang, Shang-Wei Chen, Szu-Han Lee, and Jong-Liang Lin . Comparison of the Chemistry of ClCH2CH(CH3)OH and ClCH2CH2CH2OH on Cu(100) and O/Cu(100). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2016, 120 (18) , 9826-9835. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b01816
Remedios Cortese, Roberto Schimmenti, Nerina Armata, Francesco Ferrante, Antonio Prestianni, Dario Duca, and Dmitry Yu. Murzin . Investigation of Polyol Adsorption on Ru, Pd, and Re Using vdW Density Functionals. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2015, 119 (30) , 17182-17192. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.5b04007
MyatNoeZin Myint and Jingguang G. Chen . Understanding the Role of Metal-Modified Mo(110) Bimetallic Surfaces for C–O/C═O and C–C Bond Scission in C3 Oxygenates. ACS Catalysis 2015, 5 (1) , 256-263. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs5012734
Shengguang Wang, Vassili Vorotnikov, and Dionisios G. Vlachos . Coverage-Induced Conformational Effects on Activity and Selectivity: Hydrogenation and Decarbonylation of Furfural on Pd(111). ACS Catalysis 2015, 5 (1) , 104-112. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs5015145
Chih-Heng Lien and J. Will Medlin . Promotion of Activity and Selectivity by Alkanethiol Monolayers for Pd-Catalyzed Benzyl Alcohol Hydrodeoxygenation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (41) , 23783-23789. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp507114g
Yoshinao Nakagawa, Kana Takada, Masazumi Tamura, and Keiichi Tomishige . Total Hydrogenation of Furfural and 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural over Supported Pd–Ir Alloy Catalyst. ACS Catalysis 2014, 4 (8) , 2718-2726. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs500620b
Shu-Sen Liu, Ke-Qiang Sun, and Bo-Qing Xu . Specific Selectivity of Au-Catalyzed Oxidation of Glycerol and Other C3-Polyols in Water without the Presence of a Base. ACS Catalysis 2014, 4 (7) , 2226-2230. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs5005568
Carolyn A. Schoenbaum, Daniel K. Schwartz, and J. Will Medlin . Controlling the Surface Environment of Heterogeneous Catalysts Using Self-Assembled Monolayers. Accounts of Chemical Research 2014, 47 (4) , 1438-1445. https://doi.org/10.1021/ar500029y
Michèle Besson, Pierre Gallezot, and Catherine Pinel . Conversion of Biomass into Chemicals over Metal Catalysts. Chemical Reviews 2014, 114 (3) , 1827-1870. https://doi.org/10.1021/cr4002269
Matthew M. Montemore and J. Will Medlin . Predicting and Comparing C–M and O–M Bond Strengths for Adsorption on Transition Metal Surfaces. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2014, 118 (5) , 2666-2672. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp5001418
Karl R. Kahsar, Daniel K. Schwartz, and J. Will Medlin . Control of Metal Catalyst Selectivity through Specific Noncovalent Molecular Interactions. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2014, 136 (1) , 520-526. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja411973p
Yoshinao Nakagawa, Masazumi Tamura, and Keiichi Tomishige . Catalytic Reduction of Biomass-Derived Furanic Compounds with Hydrogen. ACS Catalysis 2013, 3 (12) , 2655-2668. https://doi.org/10.1021/cs400616p
Jong-Liang Lin, Shu-Jui Tsao, Chih-Wei Chen, Yi-Shiue Lin, Tz-Shiuan Wu, Sian-Cong Chen, and Szu-Hui Li . Study on the Adsorption and Reactions of FCH2CH2OH and ClCH2CH2OH on Ni(111): Effects of Halogen and Preadsorbed Oxygen. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2013, 117 (48) , 25488-25496. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp406478d
Weiting Yu, Marc D. Porosoff, and Jingguang G. Chen . Review of Pt-Based Bimetallic Catalysis: From Model Surfaces to Supported Catalysts. Chemical Reviews 2012, 112 (11) , 5780-5817. https://doi.org/10.1021/cr300096b
Jesse R. McManus, Michael Salciccioli, Weiting Yu, Dionisios G. Vlachos, Jingguang G. Chen, and John M. Vohs . Correlating the Surface Chemistry of C2 and C3 Aldoses with a C6 Sugar: Reaction of Glucose, Glyceraldehyde, and Glycolaldehyde on Pd(111). The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2012, 116 (35) , 18891-18898. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp3062509
Michael Salciccioli and Dionisios G. Vlachos . Kinetic Modeling of Pt-Catalyzed Glycolaldehyde Decomposition to Syngas. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 2012, 116 (18) , 4621-4628. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp3017216
Michael B. Griffin, Simon H. Pang, and J. Will Medlin . Surface Chemistry of 2-Iodoethanol on Pd(111): Orientation of Surface-Bound Alcohol Controls Selectivity. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2012, 116 (6) , 4201-4208. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp211259h
M. Salciccioli, S. M. Edie, and D. G. Vlachos . Adsorption of Acid, Ester, and Ether Functional Groups on Pt: Fast Prediction of Thermochemical Properties of Adsorbed Oxygenates via DFT-Based Group Additivity Methods. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 2012, 116 (2) , 1873-1886. https://doi.org/10.1021/jp2091413
Weiting Yu, Mark A. Barteau, and Jingguang G. Chen . Glycolaldehyde as a Probe Molecule for Biomass Derivatives: Reaction of C—OH and C═O Functional Groups on Monolayer Ni Surfaces. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2011, 133 (50) , 20528-20535. https://doi.org/10.1021/ja208786f
Kecan Dou, Deqiong Xie, Jing Shi, Jie Chen, De-Li Chen, Weidong Zhu, Fumin Zhang. Structural characterization of MXene-supported cobalt nanoparticle catalysts and their catalytic performance in the hydrogenation of furfural to furfuryl alcohol. Journal of Molecular Structure 2025, 1320 , 139518. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molstruc.2024.139518
Hongli He, Jie Yang, Bo Kang, Mingxin Lv, Enhui Du, Zhilin Chen, Weiping Xie, Liyuan Huai, Hualei Hu, Chunlin Chen, Jian Zhang. Critical role of the support in the aqueous hydrogenation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural to 2,5-bis(hydroxymethyl)furan over Pt-based catalysts. Fuel 2024, 372 , 132147. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2024.132147
Antai Kang, Jiangtao Li, Yubin Li, Min Cao, Li Qiu, Bo Qin, Yanze Du, Feng Yu, Sha Li, Ruifeng Li, Xiaoliang Yan. Enhanced Bimetallic CuCo Nanoparticles on Nitrogen-Doped Carbon for Selective Hydrogenation of Furfural to Furfuryl Alcohol Through Strong Electronic Interactions. Chinese Journal of Chemical Engineering 2024, 184 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cjche.2024.06.012
Robert Bavisotto, Quintus Owen, Nicholas Hopper, Wilfred T. Tysoe. Temperature‐Programmed Reflection Absorption Infrared Spectroscopy: A Methods Review. ChemCatChem 2024, 16 (10) https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202301620
Ankita Sarkar, Sachin Sharma, Bachir Yaou Balarabe, Sethumathavan Vadivel, Tushar Tyagi, Dipak Das, Sanjay Kumar, Amrit Puzari, Bappi Paul. In-situ synthesis of star-shaped Ni supported on WO3 nanoparticles for selective hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 2024, 59 , 1174-1182. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2024.02.031
Ming Bao, Jiasheng Wang, Xiujuan Feng, Jingjie Luo, Jian Sun. Organic Synthesis Catalyzed by Metal Nanoparticles. 2024, 13-67. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-97-4573-9_2
Robert Bavisotto, Sree Pradipta Roy, Nicholas Hopper, Wilfred T. Tysoe. Understanding hydrogen pressure control of furfural hydrogenation selectivity on a Pd(1 1 1) model catalyst. Journal of Catalysis 2023, 421 , 55-64. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2023.03.010
Ye Tian, Yunchao Feng, Zheng Li, Yi Fan, Jonathan Sperry, Yong Sun, Shuliang Yang, Xing Tang, Lu Lin, Xianhai Zeng. Green and efficient selective hydrogenation of furfural to furfuryl alcohol over hybrid CoOx/Nb2O5 nanocatalyst in water. Molecular Catalysis 2023, 538 , 112981. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mcat.2023.112981
Iris Berg, Helen Eisenberg, Shahar Dery, Tehila Shahar, Albano Cossaro, Alberto Verdini, Luca Floreano, Tamar Stein, Elad Gross. The influence of adsorption geometry on the reduction affinity of nitroaromatics on Au(111). Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics 2022, 24 (37) , 22960-22970. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CP02832H
Liang Shi, Kun Lu, Xiao Kong, Licheng Li, Xiaoli Gu, Junmeng Cai, Xingguang Zhang. A new reduction method based on simultaneous Ti 3 AlC 2 support etching and metal deposition to prepare Pt catalysts for aqueous-phase selective hydrogenation of furfural to furfuryl alcohol. New Journal of Chemistry 2022, 46 (31) , 14958-14966. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2NJ02245A
Abdulaziz Aldureid, Francisco Medina, Gregory S. Patience, Daniel Montané. Ni-Cu/Al2O3 from Layered Double Hydroxides Hydrogenates Furfural to Alcohols. Catalysts 2022, 12 (4) , 390. https://doi.org/10.3390/catal12040390
Darya Savenko, Mikhail Salaev, Valerii Dutov, Sergei Kulinich, Olga Vodyankina. Modifier Effect in Silica-Supported FePO4 and Fe-Mo-O Catalysts for Propylene Glycol Oxidation. Materials 2022, 15 (5) , 1906. https://doi.org/10.3390/ma15051906
Robert Bavisotto, Sree Pradipta Roy, Wilfred T. Tysoe. Reflection absorption infrared spectroscopy of the surface chemistry of furfural on Pd(111). Journal of Vacuum Science & Technology A 2022, 40 (1) https://doi.org/10.1116/6.0001355
Paresh A. Kamble, Mannepalli Lakshmi Kantam, Virendra K. Rathod. Hydrogenation of Furfural to Furfuryl Alcohol over Nickel Supported Bentonite Catalyst. ChemistrySelect 2021, 6 (25) , 6601-6606. https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.202101370
Robert Bavisotto, Nicholas Hopper, Alejandro Boscoboinik, Quintus Owen, Wilfred T. Tysoe. Infrared spectroscopic measurements of the structure of organic thin films; furfural on Pd(111) and Au(111) surfaces. CrystEngComm 2021, 23 (25) , 4534-4548. https://doi.org/10.1039/D1CE00565K
Tobias Falk, Eko Budiyanto, Maik Dreyer, Christin Pflieger, Daniel Waffel, Julia Büker, Claudia Weidenthaler, Klaus Friedel Ortega, Malte Behrens, Harun Tüysüz, Martin Muhler, Baoxiang Peng. Identification of Active Sites in the Catalytic Oxidation of 2‐Propanol over Co 1+x Fe 2–x O 4 Spinel Oxides at Solid/Liquid and Solid/Gas Interfaces. ChemCatChem 2021, 13 (12) , 2942-2951. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202100352
Sudakar Padmanaban, Yunho Lee, Sungho Yoon. Chemoselective hydrogenation of α,β-unsaturated carbonyl compounds using a recyclable Ru catalyst embedded on a bisphosphine based POP. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry 2021, 94 , 361-367. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jiec.2020.11.007
Atal Shivhare, Abhinav Kumar, Rajendra Srivastava. An Account of the Catalytic Transfer Hydrogenation and Hydrogenolysis of Carbohydrate‐Derived Renewable Platform Chemicals over Non‐Precious Heterogeneous Metal Catalysts. ChemCatChem 2021, 13 (1) , 59-80. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202001415
Luqman H. Hashim, Ahmed Halilu, Putla Sudarsanam, Yahaya Balarabe Umar, Mohd Rafie Bin Johan, Suresh K. Bhargava. Bifunctional rice husk-derived SiO2-Cu-Al-Mg nanohybrid catalyst for one-pot conversion of biomass-derived furfural to furfuryl acetate. Fuel 2020, 275 , 117953. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2020.117953
Takeshi Aihara, Hiroki Miura, Tetsuya Shishido. Investigation of the mechanism of the selective hydrogenolysis of C O bonds over a Pt/WO3/Al2O3 catalyst. Catalysis Today 2020, 352 , 73-79. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2019.10.008
Michèle Besson, Stéphane Loridant, Noémie Perret, Catherine Pinel. Downstream Conversion of Biomass‐Derived Oxygenates to Fine Chemicals. 2020, 299-356. https://doi.org/10.1002/9783527814794.ch7
Feng Hu, Yuan Wang, Siquan Xu, Zongqi Zhang, Yuan Chen, Jingdeng Fan, Hui Yuan, Lijing Gao, Guomin Xiao. Efficient and Selective Ni/Al2O3–C Catalyst Derived from Metal–Organic Frameworks for the Hydrogenation of Furfural to Furfuryl Alcohol. Catalysis Letters 2019, 149 (8) , 2158-2168. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10562-019-02766-y
Yihu Dai, Xiaofang Chu, Jingjing Gu, Xing Gao, Min Xu, Di Lu, Xiaoyue Wan, Wei Qi, Bingsen Zhang, Yanhui Yang. Water-enhanced selective hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde to cinnamyl alcohol on RuSnB/CeO2 catalysts. Applied Catalysis A: General 2019, 582 , 117098. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcata.2019.05.032
Tamao Ishida, Tetsuo Honma, Kengo Nakada, Haruno Murayama, Tetsuya Mamba, Kurumi Kume, Yusuke Izawa, Masaru Utsunomiya, Makoto Tokunaga. Pd-catalyzed decarbonylation of furfural: Elucidation of support effect on Pd size and catalytic activity using in-situ XAFS. Journal of Catalysis 2019, 374 , 320-327. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.04.041
Alain Y. Li, Alexandra Gellé, Andreanne Segalla, Audrey Moores. Silver Nanoparticles in Organic Transformations. 2019, 723-793. https://doi.org/10.1002/9783527342822.ch12
Chinh Nguyen-Huy, Ji Sun Kim, Sinmyung Yoon, Euiseob Yang, Ja Hun Kwak, Man Sig Lee, Kwangjin An. Supported Pd nanoparticle catalysts with high activities and selectivities in liquid-phase furfural hydrogenation. Fuel 2018, 226 , 607-617. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2018.04.029
Jing Zhang, J. Will Medlin. Catalyst design using an inverse strategy: From mechanistic studies on inverted model catalysts to applications of oxide-coated metal nanoparticles. Surface Science Reports 2018, 73 (4) , 117-152. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfrep.2018.06.002
Romain Réocreux, Carine Michel. Rational design of heterogeneous catalysts for biomass conversion – Inputs from computational chemistry. Current Opinion in Green and Sustainable Chemistry 2018, 10 , 51-59. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogsc.2018.02.004
Christopher M. Engelhardt, Robert M. Kennedy, James A. Enterkin, Kenneth R. Poeppelmeier, Donald E. Ellis, Christopher L. Marshall, Peter C. Stair. Structure Sensitivity of Acrolein Hydrogenation by Platinum Nanoparticles on Ba x Sr 1− x TiO 3 Nanocuboids. ChemCatChem 2018, 10 (3) , 632-641. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201701505
Hangyu Liu, Qingqing Mei, Shaopeng Li, Youdi Yang, YanYan Wang, Huizhen Liu, LiRong Zheng, Pengfei An, Jing Zhang, Buxing Han. Selective hydrogenation of unsaturated aldehydes over Pt nanoparticles promoted by the cooperation of steric and electronic effects. Chemical Communications 2018, 54 (8) , 908-911. https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CC08942B
Maya Chatterjee, Abhijit Chatterjee, Takayuki Ishizaka, Hajime Kawanami. Defining Pt-compressed CO 2 synergy for selectivity control of furfural hydrogenation. RSC Advances 2018, 8 (36) , 20190-20201. https://doi.org/10.1039/C8RA03719A
Saira Shabbir, Sinyoung Lee, Minkyung Lim, Heejin Lee, Hyeji Ko, Youngbok Lee, Hakjune Rhee. Pd nanoparticles on reverse phase silica gel as recyclable catalyst for Suzuki-Miyaura cross coupling reaction and hydrogenation in water. Journal of Organometallic Chemistry 2017, 846 , 296-304. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jorganchem.2017.07.003
Zi-Fei Yuan, Wei-Na Zhao, Zhi-Pan Liu, Bo-Qing Xu. NaOH alone can be a homogeneous catalyst for selective aerobic oxidation of alcohols in water. Journal of Catalysis 2017, 353 , 37-43. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.006
Arghya Banerjee, Samir H. Mushrif. Reaction Pathways for the Deoxygenation of Biomass‐Pyrolysis‐Derived Bio‐oil on Ru: A DFT Study using Furfural as a Model Compound. ChemCatChem 2017, 9 (14) , 2828-2838. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201700036
Shun Nishimura, Kohki Ebitani. Catalytic Conversions of Biomass-Derived Furaldehydes Toward Biofuels. 2017https://doi.org/10.5772/67805
Wei An, Yong Men, Jinguo Wang. Comparative study on hydrogenation of propanal on Ni(111) and Cu(111) from density functional theory. Applied Surface Science 2017, 394 , 333-339. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2016.10.064
Tamao Ishida, Kurumi Kume, Kota Kinjo, Tetsuo Honma, Kengo Nakada, Hironori Ohashi, Takushi Yokoyama, Akiyuki Hamasaki, Haruno Murayama, Yusuke Izawa, Masaru Utsunomiya, Makoto Tokunaga. Efficient Decarbonylation of Furfural to Furan Catalyzed by Zirconia‐Supported Palladium Clusters with Low Atomicity. ChemSusChem 2016, 9 (24) , 3441-3447. https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201601232
Yehonatan Levartovsky, Elad Gross. Using operando Microspectroscopy to Uncover the Correlations Between the Electronic Properties of Dendrimer-Encapsulated Metallic Nanoparticles and their Catalytic Reactivity in π-Bond Activation Reactions. Topics in Catalysis 2016, 59 (19-20) , 1700-1711. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11244-016-0689-5
Wei‐Peng Wu, Yong‐Jian Xu, Shang‐Wei Chang, Jin Deng, Yao Fu. pH‐Regulated Aqueous Catalytic Hydrogenation of Biomass Carbohydrate Derivatives by Using Semisandwich Iridium Complexes. ChemCatChem 2016, 8 (21) , 3375-3380. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201601009
Lyudmila Moskaleva, Cheng‐chau Chiu, Alexander Genest, Notker Rösch. Transformations of Organic Molecules over Metal Surfaces: Insights from Computational Catalysis. The Chemical Record 2016, 16 (5) , 2388-2404. https://doi.org/10.1002/tcr.201600048
Shun Nishimura, Kohki Ebitani. Recent Advances in Heterogeneous Catalysis with Controlled Nanostructured Precious Monometals. ChemCatChem 2016, 8 (14) , 2303-2316. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201600309
Chih-Heng Lien, J. Will Medlin. Control of Pd catalyst selectivity with mixed thiolate monolayers. Journal of Catalysis 2016, 339 , 38-46. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2016.04.001
Sina He, Zheng‐Jiang Shao, Yijin Shu, Zhangping Shi, Xiao‐Ming Cao, Qingsheng Gao, Peijun Hu, Yi Tang. Enhancing Metal–Support Interactions by Molybdenum Carbide: An Efficient Strategy toward the Chemoselective Hydrogenation of α,β‐Unsaturated Aldehydes. Chemistry – A European Journal 2016, 22 (16) , 5698-5704. https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201600323
Milan Hronec, Katarína Fulajtárová, Ivo Vávra, Tomáš Soták, Edmund Dobročka, Matej Mičušík. Carbon supported Pd–Cu catalysts for highly selective rearrangement of furfural to cyclopentanone. Applied Catalysis B: Environmental 2016, 181 , 210-219. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2015.07.046
Sakari Tuokko, Petri M. Pihko, Karoliina Honkala. First Principles Calculations for Hydrogenation of Acrolein on Pd and Pt: Chemoselectivity Depends on Steric Effects on the Surface. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2016, 55 (5) , 1670-1674. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201507631
Sakari Tuokko, Petri M. Pihko, Karoliina Honkala. First Principles Calculations for Hydrogenation of Acrolein on Pd and Pt: Chemoselectivity Depends on Steric Effects on the Surface. Angewandte Chemie 2016, 128 (5) , 1702-1706. https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201507631
R. Mariscal, P. Maireles-Torres, M. Ojeda, I. Sádaba, M. López Granados. Furfural: a renewable and versatile platform molecule for the synthesis of chemicals and fuels. Energy & Environmental Science 2016, 9 (4) , 1144-1189. https://doi.org/10.1039/C5EE02666K
Weiting Yu, Jingguang G. Chen. Reaction pathways of model compounds of biomass-derived oxygenates on Fe/Ni bimetallic surfaces. Surface Science 2015, 640 , 159-164. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.susc.2015.01.009
Zifei Yuan, Zhankun Gao, Bo-Qing Xu. Acid-base property of the supporting material controls the selectivity of Au catalyst for glycerol oxidation in base-free water. Chinese Journal of Catalysis 2015, 36 (9) , 1543-1551. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(15)60936-6
Maïté Audemar, Carmen Ciotonea, Karine De Oliveira Vigier, Sébastien Royer, Adrian Ungureanu, Brindusa Dragoi, Emil Dumitriu, François Jérôme. Selective Hydrogenation of Furfural to Furfuryl Alcohol in the Presence of a Recyclable Cobalt/SBA‐15 Catalyst. ChemSusChem 2015, 8 (11) , 1885-1891. https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201403398
Yang Li, Francisco Zaera. Sensitivity of the glycerol oxidation reaction to the size and shape of the platinum nanoparticles in Pt/SiO2 catalysts. Journal of Catalysis 2015, 326 , 116-126. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2015.04.009
Xiaoru Li, Haiyang Cheng, Guanfeng Liang, Limin He, Weiwei Lin, Yancun Yu, Fengyu Zhao. Effect of Phosphine Doping and the Surface Metal State of Ni on the Catalytic Performance of Ni/Al2O3 Catalyst. Catalysts 2015, 5 (2) , 759-773. https://doi.org/10.3390/catal5020759
Ke Xiong, Weiting Yu, Dionisios G. Vlachos, Jingguang G. Chen. Reaction Pathways of Biomass‐Derived Oxygenates over Metals and Carbides: From Model Surfaces to Supported Catalysts. ChemCatChem 2015, 7 (9) , 1402-1421. https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201403067
Yang Li, Francisco Zaera. Factors affecting activity and selectivity in the oxidation of glycerol promoted by platinum catalysts. Catalysis Science & Technology 2015, 5 (7) , 3773-3781. https://doi.org/10.1039/C5CY00586H
Ruiqi Fang, Hongli Liu, Rafael Luque, Yingwei Li. Efficient and selective hydrogenation of biomass-derived furfural to cyclopentanone using Ru catalysts. Green Chemistry 2015, 17 (8) , 4183-4188. https://doi.org/10.1039/C5GC01462J
Lin-Xiu Dai, Wei Zhu, Mu Lin, Zhi-Ping Zhang, Jun Gu, Yu-Hao Wang, Ya-Wen Zhang. Self-supported composites of thin Pt–Sn crosslinked nanowires for the highly chemoselective hydrogenation of cinnamaldehyde under ambient conditions. Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers 2015, 2 (10) , 949-956. https://doi.org/10.1039/C5QI00129C
Karl R. Kahsar, Stephanie Johnson, Daniel K. Schwartz, J. Will Medlin. Hydrogenation of Cinnamaldehyde over Pd/Al2O3 Catalysts Modified with Thiol Monolayers. Topics in Catalysis 2014, 57 (17-20) , 1505-1511. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11244-014-0325-1
Laura Faba, Eva Díaz, Salvador Ordóñez. Hydrodeoxygenation of acetone–furfural condensation adducts over alumina-supported noble metal catalysts. Applied Catalysis B: Environmental 2014, 160-161 , 436-444. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2014.05.053
Sébastien Noël, Bastien Léger, Anne Ponchel, Karine Philippot, Audrey Denicourt-Nowicki, Alain Roucoux, Eric Monflier. Cyclodextrin-based systems for the stabilization of metallic(0) nanoparticles and their versatile applications in catalysis. Catalysis Today 2014, 235 , 20-32. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2014.03.030
Yoshinao Nakagawa, Masazumi Tamura, Keiichi Tomishige. Catalytic materials for the hydrogenolysis of glycerol to 1,3-propanediol. J. Mater. Chem. A 2014, 2 (19) , 6688-6702. https://doi.org/10.1039/C3TA15384C
David J. Chadderdon, Le Xin, Ji Qi, Yang Qiu, Phani Krishna, Karren L. More, Wenzhen Li. Electrocatalytic oxidation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural to 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid on supported Au and Pd bimetallic nanoparticles. Green Chem. 2014, 16 (8) , 3778-3786. https://doi.org/10.1039/C4GC00401A
Carolyn A. Schoenbaum, Daniel K. Schwartz, J. Will Medlin. Controlling surface crowding on a Pd catalyst with thiolate self-assembled monolayers. Journal of Catalysis 2013, 303 , 92-99. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2013.03.012
Denise Heeskens, Pedram Aghaei, Stefan Kaluza, Jennifer Strunk, Martin Muhler. Selective oxidation of ethanol in the liquid phase over Au/TiO 2. physica status solidi (b) 2013, 250 (6) , 1107-1118. https://doi.org/10.1002/pssb.201248440
S. Osbeck, S. Ward, H. Idriss. Effect of UV and electrochemical surface treatments on the adsorption and reaction of linear alcohols on non-porous carbon fibre. Applied Surface Science 2013, 270 , 272-280. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2012.12.173
Jesse R. McManus, John M. Vohs. Aldoses on Ni/Pd(111) surfaces: A TPD study. Applied Surface Science 2013, 271 , 45-51. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2013.01.065
Hirokazu Kobayashi, Atsushi Fukuoka. Synthesis and utilisation of sugar compounds derived from lignocellulosic biomass. Green Chemistry 2013, 15 (7) , 1740. https://doi.org/10.1039/c3gc00060e
S.M. Kozlov, H.A. Aleksandrov, L.V. Moskaleva, M. Bäumer, K.M. Neyman. From Static to Reacting Systems on Transition-Metal Surfaces. 2013, 475-503. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-08-097774-4.00733-6
Load all citations
Download PDF
Get e-Alerts
ACS Catalysis
Cite this: ACS Catal. 2011, 1, 10, 1284–1297
https://doi.org/10.1021/cs200336r
Published August 15, 2011
Copyright © 2011 American Chemical Society
Request reuse permissions
Article Views
3391
Altmetric
4
Citations
105
Learn about these metrics
Recommended Articles
Catalytic Reduction of Biomass-Derived Furanic Compounds with Hydrogen
October 24, 2013ACS Catalysis
Yoshinao Nakagawa*, Masazumi Tamura, and Keiichi Tomishige
Control of Metal Catalyst Selectivity through Specific Noncovalent Molecular Interactions
December 17, 2013Journal of the American Chemical Society
Karl R. Kahsar, Daniel K. Schwartz, and J. Will Medlin*
Show more
recommended articles
Figures
References
Abstract
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Examples of Multifunctional and Polyfunctional Oxygenates Considered in This Article
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Molecular Structure of Key Compounds Discussed in This Article, Organized Alphabetically
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Principal Reaction Paths of α,β-Unsaturated Aldehydes during Hydrogenation over Pt Group Catalysts
Figure 1
Figure 1. Adsorption modes of prenal on Pt(111) identified from a combination of density functional theory calculations and vibrational spectroscopy. Adsorption energies in kJ/mol for each structure were reported as (a) −54.2, (b) −47.8, (c) −49.5, (d) −58.6, and (e) −47.2. Reprinted from ref 29. Copyright 2008 American Chemical Society.
Figure 2
Figure 2. Adsorption modes of acrolein on Pt(111) and Ni–Pt(111) bimetallic surfaces. Subsurface Ni destabilized the adsorption of acrolein and increases the favorability of η2-adsorption of the aldehyde function (left figure in part (a)) compared to adsorption of the olefin function or η4 adsorption (through both functions center and right structures in (a)). Reprinted from ref 45. Copyright 2007 American Chemical Society.
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Furan Thermal Decomposition Pathway on Pd(111)
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Thermal Decomposition Pathway of 2,3-DHF on Pd(111)a
Scheme aFor simplicity, surface H atoms and H2 are not shown.
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. Furfuryl Alcohol and Furfural Thermal Decomposition Pathway on Pd(111)a
Scheme aFor simplicity, hydrogen is not directly shown in the mechanism.
Figure 3
Figure 3. Optimized adsorption structures of furfural on (a) Cu(111) (reprinted with permission from ref 79. Copyright 2011 Elsevier) and (b) Pd(111) (reprinted from ref 71. Copyright 2011 American Chemical Society).
Scheme 7
Scheme 7. Partial Scheme for 2(5H)-Furanone Adsorption and Decomposition on Pd(111) and Pt(111) (Adapted from Ref 86. Copyright 2009 American Chemical Society)
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. Scheme for Ethanol Adsorption and Decomposition on Pd(111)a
Scheme aThe boxed intermediates represent two possible initial hydrogenation intermediates that have been proposed in the literature.
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Simplified Mechanism for Propylene Glycol Decomposition on Pd(111) and O-Covered Ag(110)a
Scheme aFor simplicity, adsorbed atomic O and OH are not shown on the Ag(110) surface. Also not shown on Ag(110) is an observed pathway in the presence of excess oxygen that results in formation and decomposition of surface formate species.
Scheme 10
Scheme 10. Oxidation Pathways of Glycerol on Metal Catalysts
Scheme 11
Scheme 11. Reaction Paths for Glycerol Hydrogenolysis to Diols (Adapted with Permission from Ref 166. Copyright 2011 RSC Publishing)