element not found
element not found
为了改善您的体验，在您同意我们所有网站和应用的情况下，我们（和我们的合作伙伴）在您连接的终端上存储和/或访问您终端上的信息（cookie或对应信息）。
我们的网站可能会将这些cookie用于：
不通过资料收集而判定我们网站上广告的受众
根据您的导航和个人资料展示个性化广告
根据您的导航个性化我们的编辑内容
允许您在我们网站上的社交网络或平台上分享内容
根据您的位置向您发送广告
隐私政策
设定偏好
全部接受
全部拒绝
Tianjin University


Journal of Geophysical Research: AtmospheresVolume 105, Issue D16 p. 20773-20790
Climate and Dynamics
Free Access
Radiative forcings and global warming potentials of 39 greenhouse gases
Atul K. Jain, 
Bruce P. Briegleb, 
K. Minschwaner, 
Donald J. Wuebbles
First published: 01 August 2000
https://doi.org/10.1029/2000JD900241
Citations: 109
About
Abstract
The radiative forcings and global warming potentials for 39 greenhouse gases are evaluated using narrowband and broadband radiative transfer models. Unlike many previous studies, latitudinal and seasonal variations are considered explicitly, using distributions of major greenhouse gases from a combination of chemical-transport model results and Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS) measurements and cloud statistics from the International Satellite Cloud Climatology Project. The gases examined include CO2, CH4, N2O, plus a number of chlorofluorocarbons, hydrochlorofluorocarbons, hydrofluorocarbons, hydrochlorocarbons, bromocarbons, iodocarbons, and perfluorocarbons (PFCs). The model calculations are performed on a 5° latitude grid from 82.5°S to 82.5°N. The radiative forcings determined by the model are then used to derive global warming potential for each of the compounds, which are compared with prior analyses. In addition, the latitudinal and seasonal dependence of radiative forcing since preindustrial time is calculated. The vertical profiles of the gases are found to be important in determining the radiative forcings; the use of height-independent vertical distributions of greenhouse gases, as used in many previous studies, produce errors of several percent in estimated radiative forcings for gases studied here; the errors for the short-lived compounds are relatively higher. Errors in evaluated radiative forcings caused by neglecting both the seasonal and the latitudinal distributions of greenhouse gases and atmospheres are generally smaller than those due to height-independent vertical distributions. Our total radiative forcing due to increase in major greenhouse gas concentrations for the period 1765–1992 is 2.32 Wm−2, only 2% higher than other recent estimates; however, the differences for individual gases are as large as 23%.
References
Citing Literature
Download PDF
Back to Top
AGU PUBLICATIONS
AGU.ORG
AGU MEMBERSHIP
RESOURCES
PUBLICATION INFO
© 2024 American Geophysical Union
Additional links
ABOUT WILEY ONLINE LIBRARY
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
About Cookies
Manage Cookies
Accessibility
Wiley Research DE&I Statement and Publishing Policies
HELP & SUPPORT
Contact Us
Training and Support
DMCA & Reporting Piracy
OPPORTUNITIES
Subscription Agents
Advertisers & Corporate Partners
CONNECT WITH WILEY
The Wiley Network
Wiley Press Room
Copyright © 1999-2024 John Wiley & Sons, Inc or related companies. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence technologies or similar technologies.