element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
Access through another institution
Tianjin University does not subscribe to this content on ScienceDirect.
Ultramicroscopy
Volume 34, Issues 1–2
, November 1990, Pages 1-9
Chemistry on monolayer metallic films
Author links open overlay panel
D.Wayne Goodman
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/0304-3991(90)90050-V
Get rights and content
Abstract
The chemical behavior of monolayer coverages of one metal on the surface of another, e.g., Ni/W, Fe/W, Pd/W, Cu/Re, Ni/Mo, etc., has recently been shown to be dramatically different from that seen for either of the metallic components separately. These chemical alterations, which modify the chemisorption and catalytic properties of the overlayers, have, in certain cases, been correlated with changes in the structural and electronic properties of the bimetallic system. Representative studies are reviewed and discussed as to their relevance to the special properties observed for certain bimetallic catalysts.
References (44)
J.A. Barnard et al.
Surf. Sci.
(1989)
b J.A. Barnard and J.J. Ehrhardt,...
R.W. Judd et al.
Surf. Sci.
(1988)
P.J. Berlowitz et al.
Surf. Sci.
(1987)
a J.-W. He and D.W. Goodman, Langmuir,...J.-W. He et al.
J. Vac. Sci. Technol.
(1990)
J.-W. He et al.
J. Phys. Chem.
(1990)
J.H. Sinfelt
Bimetallic Catalysts
(1983)
C.M. Greenlief et al.
J. Phys. Chem.
(1987)
D.W. Goodman et al.
Surf. Sci.
(1985)
S.D. Bader et al.
J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A
(1983)
C. Park et al.
Surf. Sci.
(1987)
View more references
Cited by (33)
Selective hydrogenation of biomass-derived 2(5H)-furanone over Pt-Ni and Pt-Co bimetallic catalysts: From model surfaces to supported catalysts
2016, Journal of Catalysis
Show abstract
Reaction pathways of model compounds of biomass-derived oxygenates on Fe/Ni bimetallic surfaces
2015, Surface Science
Show abstract
Surface/structure functionalization of copper-based catalysts by metal-support and/or metal-metal interactions
2014, Applied Surface Science
Citation Excerpt :
Nowadays, Cu-based bimetallic catalysts have been employed in several applications including among others: methane oxidation [53], catalytic reduction of NO [54], carbon monoxide hydrogenation [55], cyclohexanol dehydrogenation [56], direct utilization of hydrocarbons in fuel cells [57,58], etc. From the fundamental point of view, bimetallic catalysts have gained considerable research interest, due to their unique properties, in comparison to monometallic systems [59–74]. It is well established, that mainly electronic and geometric effects can be accounted for the novel properties of bimetallic catalysts, compared to their counterparts [47].
Show abstract
Challenges and opportunities in correlating bimetallic model surfaces and supported catalysts
2013, Journal of Catalysis
Citation Excerpt :
In order to understand the origins of the novel bimetallic properties, model surfaces on single-crystal substrates have been the subject of many experimental and theoretical studies, as summarized in several reviews [8–10]. For example, Goodman and coworkers found a strong dependence of the CO desorption temperature and the core electron energy shift in a wide range of bimetallic surfaces [11,12]. Madey and coworkers performed extensive investigations in correlating the structural, electronic, and chemical properties on faceting surfaces of bimetallic systems [13].
Show abstract
Bridging the materials gap between single crystal and supported catalysts using polycrystalline Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces for cyclohexene hydrogenation
2011, Journal of Catalysis
Citation Excerpt :
Recent research has combined theoretical and experimental approaches to elucidate the underlying principles that govern the novel catalytic activity of bimetallic systems [4–6]. A great deal of effort has been devoted to investigate the adsorption and reactions of molecules on model bimetallic surfaces under ultra-high vacuum (UHV) conditions [4,7]. One class of materials that has been particularly interesting is monolayer bimetallic surfaces formed by the deposition of one element onto the substrate of another [3,7,8].
Show abstract
A one-step facile synthesis of Ag-Ni core-shell nanoparticles in water-in-oil microemulsions
2010, Colloids and Surfaces A: Physicochemical and Engineering Aspects
Show abstract
View all citing articles on Scopus
View full text
Copyright © 1990 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Recommended articles
Structural analysis and temperature dependent conductivity of LaxCu1-xO shrimp-like nanostructures synthesised via wet chemical precipitation
Materials Characterization, Volume 170, 2020, Article 110707
Cosmas Muiva, …, Albert Juma
Structural investigation and magnetic properties of oxygen adsorption on ultrathin Fe(110) film
Surface Science, Volume 685, 2019, pp. 34-39
Koutaro Nishihara, …, Seigi Mizuno
Power law for frequency-dependence of double layer capacitance of graphene flakes
Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry, Volume 741, 2015, pp. 114-119
Hongxin Wang, …, Xiuyuan Ma
Show 3 more articles
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.