<quotes>
[1] "The majority of these new facilities will be built in China or the United States and will use either the Catofin (Lummus) or the Oleflex (UOP) technologies."
[2] "A number of factors including the high-energy demands of these processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies."
[3] "The demand of these building blocks has increased steadily over the last years, all major markets registering a positive growth in demand and production in recent years with the exception of the Eurozone, due to the effects of the recent economic downturn."
[4] "As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas."
[5] "This increased supply of natural gas has resulted in a drop in gas costs of about 75% relative to 2005 prices, making this shale gas very attractive both as an energy source and as feedstock for the production of transportation fuels or chemicals."
[6] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[7] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[8] "However, it was not possible to calculate turnover frequency (TOF) due to the fact that Pt dispersion values (the ratio between the Pt at the surface versus the interior of the catalyst nanoparticles) were not forthcoming in most of the references included in Table 3."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The majority of the new propane dehydrogenation facilities will be constructed in China or the United States, utilizing the Catofin (Lummus) or Oleflex (UOP) technologies.

2. Various factors such as the high energy requirements of the processes, low selectivity towards specific olefins, depletion of crude oil reserves, and escalating crude oil prices are prompting the petrochemical sector to seek more affordable raw materials and more efficient conversion methods.

3. The demand for these fundamental components has grown consistently in recent years, with all major markets witnessing positive growth trends in demand and production, except for the Eurozone, due to the impacts of the recent economic downturn.

4. In addition to methane, shale gas reservoirs contain significant quantities of natural gas liquids (NGLs), including ethane and propane, which are easily separable from the natural gas.

5. The surge in natural gas supply has led to a substantial decline in gas costs, approximately 75% lower compared to 2005 prices, rendering this shale gas highly attractive for both energy generation and use as a feedstock in the production of transportation fuels or chemicals.

6. The profitability of propane dehydrogenation is largely influenced by the price disparity between propane and propylene, making the current market conditions highly favorable.

7. The uptick in demand, particularly from the automotive industry, along with a reduction in supply caused by the high cost of naphtha cracking, has led to steep increases in butadiene prices.

8. It was not feasible to compute the turnover frequency (TOF) due to the lack of platinum dispersion values (the ratio between the surface and internal Pt content of the catalyst nanoparticles) in most of the referenced studies included in Table 3.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 大多数新的丙烷脱氢装置将在中国或美国建设，使用Lummus的Catofin或Honeywell的Oleflex技术。

2. 各种因素，包括过程的高能需求、向特定烯烃的低选择性、石油储备的减少和原油价格的上涨，促使石油化工行业寻找更经济的原料和更高效的转化技术。

3. 这些基本组件的需求在过去几年中稳步增长，所有主要市场均在近年来见证了需求和产量的积极增长趋势，除了欧元区，由于近期经济衰退的影响。

4. 除甲烷外，页岩气田还含有大量可从天然气中分离的天然气液体（NGL），如乙烷和丙烷。

5. 天然气供应量的增加导致了大约75%的天然气成本下降，与2005年的价格相比，这使得页岩气作为能源来源和用于生产运输燃料或化学品的原材料变得非常有吸引力。

6. 丙烷脱氢的盈利能力很大程度上取决于丙烷和丙烯的价格差异，使得当前的市场条件非常有利。

7. 需求的增加，特别是汽车行业的需要，以及由于裂解原油成本高昂而导致的供应减少，导致丁二烯价格急剧上涨。

8. 由于大多数在第3表中引用的研究没有提供铂分散度值（催化剂纳米颗粒表面与内部铂含量的比例），因此无法计算周转频率（TOF）。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
