<quotes>
[1] "In recent years, hydraulic fracturing or fracking technologies have improved to the point where large volumes of shale gas can be extracted in a cost-effective manner."
[2] "This increased supply of natural gas has resulted in a drop in gas costs of about 75% relative to 2005 prices, making this shale gas very attractive both as an energy source and as feedstock for the production of transportation fuels or chemicals."
[3] "Consequently, the recent boom in shale gas production has turned the United States into the lowest cost chemical producer outside the Middle East, as illustrated by the 126 investment projects totaling 84 billion dollars made up to September 2013 that have been tallied by the American Chemistry Council."
[4] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[5] "As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas."
[6] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[7] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[8] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[9] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
To address the growing demand for light olefins and the need for more economical feedstocks and efficient conversion technologies, hydraulic fracturing (fracking) technologies have advanced, enabling the extraction of large volumes of shale gas in a cost-effective manner. This has led to a significant drop in natural gas costs by about 75% compared to 2005 prices, making shale gas a highly attractive energy source and raw material for producing transportation fuels and chemicals. The booming shale gas production in the US has transformed it into the world's lowest-cost chemical producer outside the Middle East, with over 126 investment projects totaling $84 billion as of September 2013 documented by the American Chemistry Council. The abundance of relatively inexpensive natural gas liquids, particularly ethane, has prompted a shift from traditional naphtha-based steam cracking to ethane-based operations in the US, leading to the construction of ethane crackers and the decommissioning or conversion of naphtha crackers. Shale gas deposits contain substantial quantities of natural gas liquids (NGLs) such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas. The profitability of propane dehydrogenation, which converts propane into propylene, is largely influenced by the price gap between these two commodities, making current market conditions highly favorable. The surge in demand, especially from the automotive sector, coupled with a decline in naphtha cracking supply due to high costs, has resulted in a steep rise in butadiene prices. The abundance of cheap ethane has further driven the shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking processes in the US, and this trend has also led to investments in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) plants in the US, China, and Japan.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
近年来，通过压裂技术的改进，大量页岩气以经济有效的方式得以开采。这导致天然气价格大幅下降，大约降低了75%，使之成为既作为能源来源又作为生产运输燃料或化学品原料的极具吸引力的选择。美国页岩气产量的繁荣使其成为世界除中东以外的最低成本化学生产国，截至2013年9月，已有超过126个总投资项目总额达840亿美元，由美国化学理事会记录。页岩气富含大量的天然气液体（NGL），包括乙烷和丙烷，这些气体很容易从天然气中分离出来。丙烷脱氢的盈利能力很大程度上取决于丙烷和丙烯的价格差，使得当前市场条件非常有利。对汽车行业的增加需求，与由于成本高昂而减少的石脑油裂解供应相结合，导致丁二烯价格急剧上涨。廉价的乙烷的丰富供应进一步推动了美国从传统石脑油基蒸汽裂解转向基于乙烷的操作，这一趋势也促使在美国、中国和日本投资新的丁烷脱氢（BDH）工厂。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
