<quotes>
Catalyst performance of novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts for alkane dehydrogenation Georges Siddiqi, Pingping Sun, Vladimir Galvita, Alexis T. Bell * Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-1462, USA a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Received 8 May 2010 Revised 28 June 2010 Accepted 29 June 2010 Available online 10 August 2010 Keywords: Ethane Propane Alkane dehydrogenation Pt Hydrotalcite

The dehydrogenation of ethane and propane using a Pt catalyst supported on a novel Mg(Ga)(Al)O mixed oxide support was investigated. Catalyst performance is strongly dependent on Ga content in the support,a peak in activity for both ethane and propane dehydrogenation occurs at Ga/Pt = 1.45.4, and selectivity is a monotonic function of Ga/Pt, reaching nearly 100% at Ga/Pt = 5.4.

The addition of hydrogen to the feed resulted in a peak in activity with respect to H2/alkane. The increase in dehydrogenation rate with H2 addition is attributed to H-atom-assisted dehydrogenation of alkyl species formed upon dissociative adsorption of the reactant alkane. Beyond the peak in activity with H2 addition, a further increase in H2 feed concentration contribute to alkene hydrogenation, thereby reducing the net rate of dehydroge- nation.

The higher level of deactivation seen during propane versus ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to a higher coverage of Pt by coke precursors derived from propane than ethane. Since the amount of carbon deposited as coke is higher than the amount of exposed Pt, it is concluded that most of the coke resides on the support, and that only a small amount resides on the Pt particles.

The presence of Ga also suppressed coke formation. Interestingly, less coke was formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, and no correlation was found between coke formation and catalyst deactivation.

The loss in activity of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O with time on stream is smaller for ethane than propane dehydrogenation. Coke accumulation with time on stream is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, and the moles of carbon deposited on the catalyst are many times higher than the moles of exposed Pt atoms. The lack of correlation between extent of deactivation and carbon formation suggests that only a small fraction of the accu- mulated coke resides on the surface of the Pt particles and that the bulk accumulates on the support.

The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli- dyne compared to ethylidyne, whereas the disparity between decreased coke formation and increased deactivation observed during propane dehydrogenation is attributed to a greater cover- age of the surface of the active metal particle by coke.

The authors conclude that the enhanced activity, selectivity, and resistance to coke formation of the Ga-modified Pt catalysts are attributed to the formation of PtGa alloys. The peak in activity seen for bulk Ga/Pt ratios of 1.45.4 is attributed to dilution of Pt ensembles by Ga, which enhances the adsorption of the reactant al- kane and inhibits the adsorption of product alkene. Suppressing the latter process is important, since it contributes to the formation product hydrogenolysis (e.g. the conversion of ethene to methane).

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The coke deposits in catalytic systems for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions exhibit a distinct pattern compared to those in ethane dehydrogenation. The amount of carbon deposited as coke is higher than the amount of exposed Pt in both ethane and propane PDH reactions. However, propane dehydrogenation shows less coke formation than ethane dehydrogenation. This is attributed to the ease of hydrogenation of propyli- dyne compared to ethylidyne. Despite the lesser coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, the extent of deactivation is higher due to a greater coverage of the surface of the active metal particle by coke precursors derived from propane. The analysis indicates that only a small fraction of the accumulated coke resides on the surface of the Pt particles, with the bulk of the coke accumulating on the support. The differences in coke formation and deactivation are linked to the properties of the coke precursors and the ease of hydrogenation of the respective alkylidyne species.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在丙烷脱氢（PDH）反应的催化系统中的焦炭沉积物与乙烷脱氢表现出明显的差异。沉积的碳量高于暴露的铂，在两种烷烃PDH反应中均如此。然而，与乙烷脱氢相比，丙烷脱氢产生的焦炭形成较少。这归因于丙烷脱氢时丙烯基炔的氢化比乙烯基炔更容易。尽管丙烷脱氢产生的焦炭形成较少，但其失活程度更高，这是由于从丙烷产生的焦炭前体覆盖在活性金属粒子表面的面积更大。分析表明，只有少量积累的焦炭存在于铂颗粒表面，大部分焦炭积聚在支撑材料上。焦炭形成和失活之间的差异与焦炭前体的性质以及各自烷基炔物种的氢化容易性有关。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
