<quotes>

[1] "The solgel method has attracted considerable attention for the preparation of metallic catalysts, since the constituents are mixed in an atomic scale and this generates a uniform distribution of active metals upon the support [8]."
[2] "The crystalline phase obtained by the solgel method depends on the starting metallic precursor."
[3] "The morphology of the gel particles was seen to be influenced by the nature of the doping metal; scanning electron microscopy served to observe this phenomenon."
[4] "The X-ray diffraction patterns of the samples calcined at temperatures lower than 700 C showed only reflections corresponding to the tetragonal phase."
[5] "The X-ray diffraction patterns of the samples calcined at temperatures lower than 700 C showed only reflections corresponding to the tetragonal phase."
[6] "The XRD patterns of the synthesized catalysts thermally treated at 800 C. A mixture of tetragonal and monoclinic phases is observed in the Z, ZL and ZLMF samples;only the ZrO2 specimen doped with La-Mn presents the reflections corresponding to the monoclinic phase."
[7] "The FT-IR spectra of (a) fresh xerogels and (b) of calcined samples are presented."
[8] "The FT-IR spectra of the samples, in the form of KBr mixed disks, were determined using a Perkin-Elmer Paragon 1000 PC spectrometer."
[9] "The textural properties of the catalysts were studied through N2 sorption isotherms measured at 77 K."
[10] "The specific surface areas of the ZrO2 catalysts range from 1.5 to 5 m2 g1 and the pore size from 5 to 60 nm approximately (Table 1), this means that a small surface area has a minor influence on the catalytic combustion of trieline; on the other hand,the relatively large cavity sizes can facilitate the transport of reactants and products through the porous structure of ZrO2 catalysts; which is related to percolation and permeability characteristics of the porous materials."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The sol-gel method is used to prepare metallic catalysts because it allows for mixing at the atomic scale, resulting in a uniform distribution of active metals on the support. The crystalline phase obtained by this method depends on the starting metallic precursor. The morphology of the gel particles is influenced by the nature of the doping metal, which can be observed by scanning electron microscopy. X-ray diffraction patterns show that the samples calcined at temperatures lower than 700°C exhibit only reflections corresponding to the tetragonal phase. The XRD patterns of the synthesized catalysts thermally treated at 800°C reveal a mixture of tetragonal and monoclinic phases in the Z, ZL, and ZLMF samples, with only the ZrO2 specimen doped with La-Mn showing reflections corresponding to the monoclinic phase. The FT-IR spectra of the fresh xerogels and calcined samples are presented, determined using a Perkin-Elmer Paragon 1000 PC spectrometer. The textural properties of the catalysts are studied through N2 sorption isotherms measured at 77 K. The specific surface areas of the ZrO2 catalysts range from 1.5 to 5 m2/g, and the pore size is approximately 5 to 60 nm. A small surface area has a minor influence on the catalytic combustion of trichloroethylene, while the relatively large cavity sizes can facilitate the transport of reactants and products through the porous structure of ZrO2 catalysts, which is related to percolation and permeability characteristics of the porous materials.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.溶胶-凝胶法用于制备金属催化剂，因为它允许在原子尺度上混合，从而在支撑上均匀分布活性金属。获得的结晶相取决于起始金属前体。凝胶颗粒的形态受掺杂金属性质的影响，这可以通过扫描电子显微镜观察到。X射线衍射图谱显示，低于700°C煅烧的样品仅显示与四方相对应的反射。合成催化剂在800°C热处理后的XRD图谱显示，Z、ZL和ZLMF样品中存在四方相和单斜相的混合物，只有掺杂La-Mn的ZrO2样品显示出与单斜相对应的反射。新鲜凝胶和煅烧样品的FT-IR光谱以Perkin-Elmer Paragon 1000 PC光谱仪的形式呈现。通过在77 K测量的N2吸附等温线研究了催化剂的纹理性质。ZrO2催化剂的比表面积范围为1.5至5 m2/g，孔径约为5至60 nm。小的表面积对三氯乙烯催化燃烧的影响较小，而相对较大的腔体尺寸可以促进反应物和产物通过ZrO2催化剂的多孔结构的传输，这与多孔材料的渗透和渗透性特征有关。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
