<quotes>

[1] "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, the rates of which can be measured from the effects of residence time on formation rates of alkenes and COx (CO and CO2)."
[2] "Catalytic turnovers for oxidative dehydrogenation of MoOx and VOx proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles."
[3] "These cycles involve the removal and replacement of lattice oxygen atoms via pathways first proposed by Mars and van Krevelen."
[4] "Reaction rates are limited by the reduction step, which involves the activation of the weakest CH bond in alkanes on a pair of lattice oxygen atoms at the surface of reducible oxide domains."
[5] "This catalytic sequence, depicted in Scheme 4, requires transition states that introduce significant electron density into oxide domains during CH bond activation."
[6] "The ability to accept electron density, which depends on the position of the LUMO (DE2; Scheme 3) is likely to lead to significant catalytic consequences."
[7] "The concurrent changes observed in absorption edge energies and in the stabilization of the transition state for CH bond cleavage and OH and CO bond formation reflect the increased ability of larger domains to accept electrons, consistent with their lower lying LUMO states and higher electron affinity."
[8] "The detection and quantification of reduced centers during oxidation catalysis is a challenging task made possible by recent studies that exploit the sensitivity of pre-edge features to changes in orbital occupancy caused by reduction."
[9] "The extent of reduction of active centers was determined in VOxAl2O3 samples with a range of VOx surface densities from the intensity of pre-edge dd electronic transitions during steady-state oxidative dehydrogenation of propane."
[10] "The extent of reduction also increased with increasing VOx surface density,consistent with the more reducible nature and higher catalytic reactivity of larger VOx domains and with the kinetic relevance of the CH bond activation step, which requires the formal reduction of V5+ centers."
[11] "This relation between the extent of reduction during catalysis and the propene formation rates confirms the redox nature of catalytic cycles and the exclusive kinetic relevance of the reduction part of the catalytic sequence,in which CH bonds are activated using lattice oxygen atoms."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, which can be measured by the effects of residence time on the formation rates of alkenes and COx. The catalytic turnovers for ODH of MoOx and VOx proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, involving the removal and replacement of lattice oxygen atoms, as proposed by Mars and van Krevelen. The reaction rates are limited by the reduction step, which activates the weakest CH bond in alkanes on the surface of reducible oxide domains. This catalytic sequence requires transition states that introduce significant electron density into oxide domains during CH bond activation. The ability of oxide domains to accept electron density, which depends on the position of the LUMO, leads to significant catalytic consequences. Larger domains have a greater ability to accept electrons, consistent with their lower lying LUMO states and higher electron affinity. The detection and quantification of reduced centers during oxidation catalysis is a challenging task, but recent studies have exploited the sensitivity of pre-edge features to changes in orbital occupancy caused by reduction. The extent of reduction of active centers was determined in VOxAl2O3 samples with a range of VOx surface densities from the intensity of pre-edge dd electronic transitions during steady-state oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. The extent of reduction increased with increasing VOx surface density, consistent with the more reducible nature and higher catalytic reactivity of larger VOx domains. This relation between the extent of reduction during catalysis and the propene formation rates confirms the redox nature of catalytic cycles and the exclusive kinetic relevance of the reduction part of the catalytic sequence, in which CH bonds are activated using lattice oxygen atoms. Site isolation plays a role in addressing selectivity issues by controlling the electronic properties and reduction dynamics of the oxide domains, which in turn affects the activation barriers for CH bond activation steps.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃氧化脱氢（ODH）涉及主要和次要反应，这些反应可以通过停留时间对烯烃和COx（CO和CO2）形成速率的影响来测量。MoOx和VOx的ODH催化转化通过还原-氧化循环进行，涉及通过Mars和van Krevelen首次提出的途径去除和替换晶格氧原子。反应速率受还原步骤的限制，该步骤在可还原氧化物域的表面激活烷烃中最弱的CH键。这个催化序列需要在CH键活化过程中向氧化物域引入大量电子密度的过渡态。氧化物域接受电子密度的能力，这取决于LUMO的位置，可能会导致显著的催化后果。较大的域具有更强的接受电子的能力，与它们较低的LUMO状态和较高的电子亲和力一致。在氧化催化过程中检测和量化还原中心是一项具有挑战性的任务，但最近的研究利用了由还原引起的轨道占据变化对预边缘特征的敏感性。在具有不同VOx表面密度的VOxAl2O3样品中，从稳态丙烷氧化脱氢期间预边缘dd电子跃迁的强度确定了活性中心的还原程度。还原程度随着VOx表面密度的增加而增加，与较大VOx域的更可还原性质和更高的催化活性一致。催化过程中还原程度与丙烯形成速率之间的这种关系证实了催化循环的氧化还原性质，以及还原部分在催化序列中的专属动力学相关性，其中使用晶格氧原子激活CH键。通过控制氧化物域的电子特性和还原动力学，位点隔离在解决选择性问题中发挥作用，这反过来影响CH键活化步骤的活化能。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
