<quotes>

[1] "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, the rates of which can be measured from the effects of residence time on formation rates of alkenes and COx (CO and CO2)."
[2] "Catalytic turnovers for oxidative dehydrogenation of MoOx and VOx proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles."
[3] "These cycles involve the removal and replacement of lattice oxygen atoms via pathways first proposed by Mars and van Krevelen."
[4] "Reaction rates are limited by the reduction step, which involves the activation of the weakest CH bond in alkanes on a pair of lattice oxygen atoms at the surface of reducible oxide domains."
[5] "The catalytic sequence, depicted in Scheme 4, requires transition states that introduce significant electron density into oxide domains during CH bond activation."
[6] "Thus, the ability to accept electron density, which depends on the position of the LUMO (DE2; Scheme 3) is likely to lead to significant catalytic consequences."
[7] "The concurrent changes observed in absorption edge energies and in the stabilization of the transition state for CH bond cleavage and OH and CO bond formation reflect the increased ability of larger domains to accept electrons, consistent with their lower lying LUMO states and higher electron affinity."
[8] "These trends are also consistent with the linear free energy relationships between reaction enthalpies and activation energies commonly observed in oxidation catalysis."
[9] "For a given reactant (DE1, XH bond dissociation energy and H ionization energy,endothermic) and cluster (with protonation enthalpy DE3,exothermic), a lower lying LUMO (DE2) leads to a more exothermic H abstraction reaction (DHCH,abstr = DE1 + DE2 + DE3) and activation barrier (Eact,CH,abst) assuming an Evans-Polyani correlation of Eact,CH,abst and DHCH,abstr according to Eact,CH,abst = E0 + aDHCH,abstr,where E0 and a are constants."
[10] "Propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates (per Mo-atom) increased with increasing surface density and decreasing edge energy, as the latter approaches values typical of saturated polymolybdate monolayers."
[11] "These trends indicate that the reactivity of MoOx surfaces increases as larger domains become increasingly able to accept electron density and to stabilize transition states required in rate-determining reduction steps relative to smaller domains with higher-lying LUMO states."
[12] "Ultimately, higher surface densities lead to the formation of crystalline MoOx with inaccessible Mo centers, which renders the use of the total number of Mo atoms inappropriate as a measure of the number of active sites."
[13] "As a result, turnover rates reported on the basis of Mo atoms inevitably and ultimately decrease with increasing MoOx surface densities (Fig. 12) as a result of the prevalence of inaccessible Mo-oxo species."
[14] "These catalytic trends resemble those reported previously for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and ethane on VOx domains and for reactions of propane on MoOx domains dispersed on other supports."
[15] "Similar trends have also been observed for oxidative dehydrogenation of oxygenates on VOx and MoOx domains and on more reducible RuOx domains."
[16] "The observed effects of domain size on catalysis parallel similar effects on the dynamics of their incipient stoichiometric reduction in H2, a process that leads to the formation of isolated vacancies and which resembles the elementary steps involved in the reduction part of catalytic dehydrogenation cycles."
[17] "Stoichiometric reduction rates increased with increasing MoOx and VOx surface densities,consistent with a concurrent decrease in their LUMO energies."
[18] "The mechanistic connections between oxidative dehydrogenation rates and the LMCT absorption edge in the electronic spectra of dispersed oxides are evident from the data shown in Fig. 13."
[19] "Catalytic turnover rates on VOx, MoOx, WOx, and NbOx domains dispersed predominantly as monomers or two-dimensional oligomers on various supports (Al2O3, ZrO2, MgO) are shown as a function of their corresponding LMCT energies."
[20] "For all active oxides, ODH turnover rates (per active metal atom) increased monotonically as LMCT energies decreased."
[21] "These results indicate that the stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps depends sensitively on the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons during reduction events that limit alkane dehydrogenation rates."
[22] "The UV-visible absorption edge energy decreases as the energy level of the LUMO decreases and as the electron affinity of the cluster (Scheme 3, DE2) increases."
[23] "These effects influence, in turn, the energies of intermediates and transition states that require electron transfer to the cluster."
[24] "They lead to the exponential dependence of propane ODH turnover rates on LMCT absorption edge energies evident from Fig. 13."
[25] "The identity of the metal has the strongest impact on both LMCT absorption edge energy and propane ODH turnover rates."
[26] "More reducible supports and higher surface densities lead to higher propane ODH turnover rates for a given element and to lower edge energies and lower-lying LUMO states, which stabilize both the products and the transition state in CH bond activation steps."
[27] "MoOx and VOx domains can be made similar in reactivity,in spite of their different chemical identities, by dispersing the latter as smaller domains or onto less reducible supports than the former."
[28] "Thus, we conclude that quantum confinement effects, imposed by the size and electronic isolation of oxide domains, can be used to design materials with electronic properties and catalytic functions controlled by properties other than chemical composition."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, the rates of which can be measured from the effects of residence time on formation rates of alkenes and COx (CO and CO2). Catalytic turnovers for oxidative dehydrogenation of MoOx and VOx proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles. These cycles involve the removal and replacement of lattice oxygen atoms via pathways first proposed by Mars and van Krevelen. Reaction rates are limited by the reduction step, which involves the activation of the weakest CH bond in alkanes on a pair of lattice oxygen atoms at the surface of reducible oxide domains. The catalytic sequence requires transition states that introduce significant electron density into oxide domains during CH bond activation. The ability to accept electron density, which depends on the position of the LUMO, is likely to lead to significant catalytic consequences. The concurrent changes observed in absorption edge energies and in the stabilization of the transition state for CH bond cleavage and OH and CO bond formation reflect the increased ability of larger domains to accept electrons, consistent with their lower lying LUMO states and higher electron affinity. These trends are also consistent with the linear free energy relationships between reaction enthalpies and activation energies commonly observed in oxidation catalysis. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates (per Mo-atom) increased with increasing surface density and decreasing edge energy, as the latter approaches values typical of saturated polymolybdate monolayers. These trends indicate that the reactivity of MoOx surfaces increases as larger domains become increasingly able to accept electron density and to stabilize transition states required in rate-determining reduction steps relative to smaller domains with higher-lying LUMO states. Ultimately, higher surface densities lead to the formation of crystalline MoOx with inaccessible Mo centers, which renders the use of the total number of Mo atoms inappropriate as a measure of the number of active sites. As a result, turnover rates reported on the basis of Mo atoms inevitably and ultimately decrease with increasing MoOx surface densities as a result of the prevalence of inaccessible Mo-oxo species. These catalytic trends resemble those reported previously for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and ethane on VOx domains and for reactions of propane on MoOx domains dispersed on other supports. Similar trends have also been observed for oxidative dehydrogenation of oxygenates on VOx and MoOx domains and on more reducible RuOx domains. The observed effects of domain size on catalysis parallel similar effects on the dynamics of their incipient stoichiometric reduction in H2, a process that leads to the formation of isolated vacancies and which resembles the elementary steps involved in the reduction part of catalytic dehydrogenation cycles. Stoichiometric reduction rates increased with increasing MoOx and VOx surface densities,consistent with a concurrent decrease in their LUMO energies. The mechanistic connections between oxidative dehydrogenation rates and the LMCT absorption edge in the electronic spectra of dispersed oxides are evident from the data. Catalytic turnover rates on VOx, MoOx, WOx, and NbOx domains dispersed predominantly as monomers or two-dimensional oligomers on various supports (Al2O3, ZrO2, MgO) are shown as a function of their corresponding LMCT energies. For all active oxides, ODH turnover rates (per active metal atom) increased monotonically as LMCT energies decreased. These results indicate that the stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps depends sensitively on the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons during reduction events that limit alkane dehydrogenation rates. The UV-visible absorption edge energy decreases as the energy level of the LUMO decreases and as the electron affinity of the cluster increases. These effects influence, in turn, the energies of intermediates and transition states that require electron transfer to the cluster. They lead to the exponential dependence of propane ODH turnover rates on LMCT absorption edge energies. The identity of the metal has the strongest impact on both LMCT absorption edge energy and propane ODH turnover rates. More reducible supports and higher surface densities lead to higher propane ODH turnover rates for a given element and to lower edge energies and lower-lying LUMO states, which stabilize both the products and the transition state in CH bond activation steps. MoOx and VOx domains can be made similar in reactivity,in spite of their different chemical identities, by dispersing the latter as smaller domains or onto less reducible supports than the former. Quantum confinement effects, imposed by the size and electronic isolation of oxide domains, can be used to design materials with electronic properties and catalytic functions controlled by properties other than chemical composition.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃的氧化脱氢（ODH）涉及主要和次要反应，这些反应的速率可以通过停留时间对烯烃和COx（CO和CO2）生成速率的影响来测量。钼氧化物（MoOx）和钒氧化物（VOx）的氧化脱氢催化转化通过还原-氧化循环进行。这些循环涉及通过Mars和van Krevelen首次提出的途径去除和替换晶格氧原子。反应速率受到还原步骤的限制，该步骤涉及在可还原氧化物域表面的晶格氧原子上激活烷烃中最弱的CH键。催化序列需要在CH键活化过程中将大量电子密度引入氧化物域的过渡态。接受电子密度的能力，这取决于LUMO（DE2）的位置，很可能导致显著的催化后果。在吸收边缘能量和CH键裂解和OH和CO键形成过渡态的稳定化中观察到的并发变化反映了较大域接受电子能力的增强，这与它们较低的LUMO状态和较高的电子亲和力一致。这些趋势也与氧化催化中通常观察到的反应焓和活化能之间的线性自由能关系一致。丙烷氧化脱氢速率（每Mo原子）随着表面密度的增加和边缘能量的降低而增加，后者接近饱和多钼酸盐单层的典型值。这些趋势表明，随着较大域越来越能够接受电子密度并稳定决定速率的还原步骤所需的过渡态，MoOx表面的反应性增加，而较小域的LUMO状态较高。最终，较高的表面密度导致形成具有不可接近的Mo中心的结晶MoOx，这使得使用总Mo原子数作为活性位点的数量变得不适当。因此，基于Mo原子报告的周转率不可避免地且最终会随着MoOx表面密度的增加而降低，这是由于不可接近的Mo-氧物种的普遍存在。这些催化趋势与之前关于VOx域上丙烷和乙烷氧化脱氢以及MoOx域分散在其他支持物上的丙烷反应的报道相似。对于VOx和MoOx域以及更可还原的RuOx域上的氧化脱氢氧酸，也观察到了类似的趋势。域大小对催化的影响与它们在H2中初始计量还原动力学的类似影响平行，这一过程导致形成孤立的空位，类似于催化脱氢循环还原部分的初等步骤。计量还原速率随着MoOx和VOx表面密度的增加而增加，这与它们LUMO能量的并发降低一致。氧化脱氢速率与分散氧化物的电子光谱中LMCT吸收边缘之间的机制联系从数据中显而易见。在各种支持物（Al2O3，ZrO2，MgO）上主要作为单体或二维寡聚体分散的VOx，MoOx，WOx和NbOx域的催化周转率作为它们相应的LMCT能量的函数显示。对于所有活性氧化物，ODH周转率（每活性金属原子）随着LMCT能量的降低而单调增加。这些结果表明，CH键解离步骤中活化复合物的稳定性对氧化物域在限制烷烃脱氢速率的还原事件中接受电子的能力敏感地依赖。UV-可见吸收边缘能量随着LUMO能级的降低和簇（方案3，DE2）的电子亲和力的增加而降低。这些效应反过来影响需要向簇转移电子的中间体和过渡态的能量。它们导致丙烷ODH周转率对LMCT吸收边缘能量的指数依赖性。金属的特性对LMCT吸收边缘能量和丙烷ODH周转率有最强的影响。对于给定元素，更可还原的支持物和更高的表面密度导致更高的丙烷ODH周转率和更低的边缘能量以及更低的LUMO状态，这稳定了CH键活化步骤中的产物和过渡态。尽管它们具有不同的化学特性，但通过将后者分散为较小的域或分散在比前者更不可还原的支持物上，可以使MoOx和VOx域具有相似的反应性。因此，我们得出结论，由氧化物域的大小和电子隔离强加的量子限制效应可用于设计电子特性和催化功能由化学组成以外的特性控制的材料。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
