<quotes>

[1] "Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, the rates of which can be measured from the effects of residence time on formation rates of alkenes and COx (CO and CO2)."
[2] "Catalytic turnovers for oxidative dehydrogenation of MoOx and VOx proceed via reduction-oxidation cycles."
[3] "These cycles involve the removal and replacement of lattice oxygen atoms via pathways first proposed by Mars and van Krevelen."
[4] "Reaction rates are limited by the reduction step, which involves the activation of the weakest CH bond in alkanes on a pair of lattice oxygen atoms at the surface of reducible oxide domains."
[5] "The catalytic sequence, depicted in Scheme 4, requires transition states that introduce significant electron density into oxide domains during CH bond activation."
[6] "Thus, the ability to accept electron density, which depends on the position of the LUMO (DE2; Scheme 3) is likely to lead to significant catalytic consequences."
[7] "The concurrent changes observed in absorption edge energies and in the stabilization of the transition state for CH bond cleavage and OH and CO bond formation reflect the increased ability of larger domains to accept electrons, consistent with their lower lying LUMO states and higher electron affinity."
[8] "These trends are also consistent with the linear free energy relationships between reaction enthalpies and activation energies commonly observed in oxidation catalysis."
[9] "For a given reactant (DE1, XH bond dissociation energy and H ionization energy,endothermic) and cluster (with protonation enthalpy DE3,exothermic), a lower lying LUMO (DE2) leads to a more exothermic H abstraction reaction (DHCH,abstr = DE1 + DE2 + DE3) and activation barrier (Eact,CH,abst) assuming an Evans-Polyani correlation of Eact,CH,abst and DHCH,abstr according to Eact,CH,abst = E0 + aDHCH,abstr,where E0 and a are constants."
[10] "Propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates (per Mo-atom) increased with increasing surface density and decreasing edge energy, as the latter approaches values typical of saturated polymolybdate monolayers."
[11] "These trends indicate that the reactivity of MoOx surfaces increases as larger domains become increasingly able to accept electron density and to stabilize transition states required in rate-determining reduction steps relative to smaller domains with higher-lying LUMO states."
[12] "Ultimately, higher surface densities lead to the formation of crystalline MoOx with inaccessible Mo centers, which renders the use of the total number of Mo atoms inappropriate as a measure of the number of active sites."
[13] "As a result, turnover rates reported on the basis of Mo atoms inevitably and ultimately decrease with increasing MoOx surface densities (Fig. 12) as a result of the prevalence of inaccessible Mo-oxo species."
[14] "These catalytic trends resemble those reported previously for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and ethane on VOx domains and for reactions of propane on MoOx domains dispersed on other supports."
[15] "Similar trends have also been observed for oxidative dehydrogenation of oxygenates on VOx and MoOx domains and on more reducible RuOx domains."
[16] "The observed effects of domain size on catalysis parallel similar effects on the dynamics of their incipient stoichiometric reduction in H2, a process that leads to the formation of isolated vacancies and which resembles the elementary steps involved in the reduction part of catalytic dehydrogenation cycles."
[17] "Stoichiometric reduction rates increased with increasing MoOx and VOx surface densities,consistent with a concurrent decrease in their LUMO energies."
[18] "The mechanistic connections between oxidative dehydrogenation rates and the LMCT absorption edge in the electronic spectra of dispersed oxides are evident from the data shown in Fig. 13."
[19] "Catalytic turnover rates on VOx, MoOx, WOx, and NbOx domains dispersed predominantly as monomers or two-dimensional oligomers on various supports (Al2O3, ZrO2, MgO) are shown as a function of their corresponding LMCT energies."
[20] "For all active oxides, ODH turnover rates (per active metal atom) increased monotonically as LMCT energies decreased."
[21] "These results indicate that the stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps depends sensitively on the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons during reduction events that limit alkane dehydrogenation rates."
[22] "The UV-visible absorption edge energy decreases as the energy level of the LUMO decreases and as the electron affinity of the cluster (Scheme 3, DE2) increases."
[23] "These effects influence, in turn, the energies of intermediates and transition states that require electron transfer to the cluster."
[24] "They lead to the exponential dependence of propane ODH turnover rates on LMCT absorption edge energies evident from Fig. 13."
[25] "The identity of the metal has the strongest impact on both LMCT absorption edge energy and propane ODH turnover rates."
[26] "More reducible supports and higher surface densities lead to higher propane ODH turnover rates for a given element and to lower edge energies and lower-lying LUMO states, which stabilize both the products and the transition state in CH bond activation steps."
[27] "MoOx and VOx domains can be made similar in reactivity,in spite of their different chemical identities, by dispersing the latter as smaller domains or onto less reducible supports than the former."
[28] "Thus, we conclude that quantum confinement effects, imposed by the size and electronic isolation of oxide domains, can be used to design materials with electronic properties and catalytic functions controlled by properties other than chemical composition."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves primary and secondary reactions, which can be measured by observing the effects of residence time on the formation rates of alkenes and COx. The catalytic turnovers for ODH of MoOx and VOx proceed through reduction-oxidation cycles, involving the removal and replacement of lattice oxygen atoms. Reaction rates are limited by the reduction step, which activates the weakest CH bond in alkanes on a pair of lattice oxygen atoms. The catalytic sequence requires transition states that introduce significant electron density into oxide domains during CH bond activation. The ability of oxide domains to accept electron density, which depends on the position of the LUMO, leads to significant catalytic consequences. Larger domains have lower lying LUMO states and higher electron affinity, which increases their ability to accept electrons. This is consistent with the linear free energy relationships between reaction enthalpies and activation energies commonly observed in oxidation catalysis. Propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates increase with increasing surface density and decreasing edge energy. The reactivity of MoOx surfaces increases as larger domains become more able to accept electron density and stabilize transition states required in rate-determining reduction steps. Higher surface densities lead to the formation of crystalline MoOx with inaccessible Mo centers, decreasing turnover rates. Similar trends have been observed for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, ethane, and oxygenates on VOx and MoOx domains, and on more reducible RuOx domains. Stoichiometric reduction rates increase with increasing MoOx and VOx surface densities, consistent with a concurrent decrease in their LUMO energies. The stability of activated complexes in CH bond dissociation steps depends on the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons during reduction events that limit alkane dehydrogenation rates. The UV-visible absorption edge energy decreases as the energy level of the LUMO decreases and as the electron affinity of the cluster increases. Quantum confinement effects, imposed by the size and electronic isolation of oxide domains, can be used to design materials with electronic properties and catalytic functions controlled by properties other than chemical composition.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃的氧化脱氢（ODH）涉及主要和次要反应，这些反应可以通过观察停留时间对烯烃和COx形成速率的影响来测量。MoOx和VOx的ODH催化转化通过还原-氧化循环进行，涉及晶格氧原子的去除和替换。反应速率受到还原步骤的限制，该步骤在可还原氧化物域表面上的一对晶格氧原子上激活烷烃中最弱的CH键。催化序列需要在CH键活化过程中向氧化物域引入大量电子密度的过渡态。氧化物域接受电子密度的能力，这取决于LUMO（DE2）的位置，可能会导致显著的催化后果。较大的域具有较低的LUMO状态和较高的电子亲和力，这增加了它们接受电子的能力。这与氧化催化中通常观察到的反应焓与活化能之间的线性自由能关系一致。丙烷氧化脱氢速率随表面密度的增加和边缘能量的降低而增加。MoOx表面的反应性随着较大域越来越能够接受电子密度和稳定速率决定性还原步骤所需的过渡态而增加。较高的表面密度导致形成具有不可接近的Mo中心的结晶MoOx，导致基于Mo原子的周转率不可避免地最终随MoOx表面密度的增加而降低。对于丙烷、乙烷和MoOx域上其他支撑物上的氧化脱氢，以及更可还原的RuOx域上的氧化脱氢，观察到类似的趋势。随着MoOx和VOx表面密度的增加，计量还原速率增加，与它们的LUMO能量的并发降低一致。CH键解离步骤中活化复合物的稳定性敏感地依赖于氧化物域在限制烷烃脱氢速率的还原事件中接受电子的能力。UV-可见吸收边缘能量随着LUMO能量水平的降低和簇的电子亲和力（方案3，DE2）的增加而降低。这些效应反过来影响需要向簇转移电子的中间体和过渡态的能量。它们导致丙烷ODH周转率对图13中LMCT吸收边缘能量的指数依赖性。金属的特性对LMCT吸收边缘能量和丙烷ODH周转率有最强的影响。对于给定元素，更可还原的支撑物和更高的表面密度导致更高的丙烷ODH周转率和更低的边缘能量和较低的LUMO状态，这稳定了CH键活化步骤中的产物和过渡态。尽管它们具有不同的化学特性，但通过将后者分散为较小的域或比前者更不可还原的支撑物上，可以将MoOx和VOx域制成具有相似的反应性。因此，我们得出结论，由氧化物域的大小和电子隔离强加的量子限制效应可以用于设计电子特性和催化功能由化学组成以外的特性控制的材料。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
