I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Direct Insight into Ethane Oxidative Dehydrogenation over Boron Nitrides Graphical Abstract DOS and don'ts of dehydrogenation: In the dehydrogenation of alkanes, conventional metal-based catalysts enable the dissociation of O2 into dissociative oxygen species (DOS), and thereby the CH bonds can be easily activated; however, DOS inevitably overoxidize the alkanes to CO2. Adsorbed O2 at the edges of boron nitride can abstract a hydrogen atom from ethane to deliver the corresponding alkene with 100% selectivity (S).Abstract The ultimate objective of chemical conversion is to achieve 100% selectivity from catalysis, and this is also a prodigious challenge for the conversion of light paraffins into olefins, because it involves controlled activation of highly stable aliphatic CH bonds. Herein, we show that metal-free boron nitride (BN) nanosheets not only enable the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene exclusively at near 10% conversion, but they also deliver a remarkable 60% selectivity at an ethane conversion of 78% and remain stable over 400h at 575C. Our operando infrared spectroscopy and 18O isotope tracer study explicitly demonstrates that BO(H) active sites are formed at the edges of BN through the aid of ethane, and the dehydrogenation circle is completed over these BO sites by the assistance of O2.Oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of light paraffins (C1C4) has recently been extensively exploited for its thermodynamic and economic advantages over conventional steam-cracking and direct-dehydrogenation (DH) routes for the production of olefins,1 especially at the crossroad of a surging shale gas reserve as a huge paraffin source.2 The key hurdle resides in aliphatic CH bond cleavage, particularly the terminal CH bond (420kJmol1).1c, 3 Early systems involved the use of metal catalysts with agostic activity because of their strong electron-acceptor/donor properties, but they also led to the rupture of O=O bonds (498kJmol1) to form dissociative oxygen species (DOS), which resulted in CO2 emission.4 Eccentric measures were hence taken to shield the overly active centers to reduce combustion, but the top-down approach did not allow exclusive transformation of paraffins into olefins.5 An ideal ODH catalyst should possess milder electron-donor/acceptor properties for exclusive cleavage of CH bonds but should be relatively inert for O2 activation.1 We anticipated that boron nitride (BN) materials would meet these requirements because the weak polar BN bonds6 were shown to have the capacity to activate H27 and CH bonds8 and because of the high dissociation energy of O2.9 Very recently, the advent of boron nitride for the selective ODH of propane confirmed the exciting opportunity of BN catalysts for controllable aliphatic CH activation; the arm-chair BN edge was proposed to activate O2 onsite to form a B-O-O-N intermediate on the basis of calculations, and thereby the rupture of the nonterminal CH of propane ensued.8 A follow-up study noted that on the basis of spectroscopic evidence, the BOH group in boron nitride was responsible for hydrogen abstraction of propane to propene and that this group simultaneously prevented overoxidation to CO2.10 However, most reports showed that BN materials usually terminated as zigzag edges and were difficult to be oxidized by O2 (>800C).9b, 11 Herein, our oxidation stability test of BN materials also showed that BN materials could not be oxidized below 800C under an O2 atmosphere (see FigureS1 in the Supporting Information), which indicated that with molecular O2 alone it was difficult to form the proposed BO species at the armchair edges under ODH reaction conditions (<600C). We therefore anticipated that O2 activation should be initiated by CH activation. Indeed, our operando spectroscopic results showed that BO(H) formation was accompanied by an induction phase of C2H6 activation and that it was these BO(H) sites that served as the active sites for the ODH ethane; as such, unprecedented selectivity for ethylene without CO2 formation under the weak oxidation conditions was found.Herein, we prepared a high-surface-area BN nanosheet (s-BN) for the ODH of ethane, an alkane with only terminal CH bonds, to study the selectivity for ethylene. In comparison to other nonprecious metal catalysts (FigureS2), the BN catalysts (s-BN and b-BN, bulk BN from a commercial source) in general delivered excellent selectivity to ethylene (S >92%) without CO2 emission at approximately 10% ethane conversion at 540C, whereas significant amounts of CO2 (S >30%) and CO (SCO>10%) were produced with other catalysts (graphene and VOx/Al2O3), even at a lower temperature of 400C (Figure1a). Notably, s-BN manifested a remarkable 100% selectivity without any trace of byproducts at an ethane conversion of 9.2%. The lower selectivity of b-BN was imputed to the presence of BO domains at the edges (FigureS3); further elucidation of the role of the BO sites is provided below. Another notable finding was the substantially improved consumption rate of ethane over s-BN, which was 5.5times higher than that over b-BN (Figure1b), provided that there was a 108-fold enhancement in the specific surface area for s-BN (TableS1, FigureS4). Consequently, the majority of the surface was inactive, which implied the active sites were likely located at the edges of the BN catalysts.Figure 1 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Catalytic performance of the ODH of ethane. a)Product selectivity (blue: S , green: S , orange: SCO, yellow: S ) at isoconversion of ethane (X 10%) over different catalysts (60Lg1h1, C2H6/O2/He=1:1:48, 540C for BN materials, 400C for others). b)Ethane consumption rate on b-BN and s-BN at isoweight (50mg, 24Lg1h1, C2H6/O2/He=1:1:48, 550C). c)Selectivity to C2H4 over s-BN as a function of the conversion of C2H6 obtained by varying the reaction temperature in the range of 520 to 580C; the literature results of the Pt, Pt-Sn (ODH of ethane),5c and Pt-Sn/MgAlO (DH of ethane)12 catalysts are also shown for reference. d)A long-term test of the catalytic performance on s-BN (20mg) at exclusive conversion (60Lg1h1, C2H6/O2/He=1:1:48, 540C) for 30h, at medium conversion (30Lg1h1, 540C) for 100h, and at high conversion (30Lg1h1, C2H6/O2/He=1:2:47, 575C) for 400h.In further, the capability of the s-BN catalyst to initiate ethane-to-ethylene conversion was examined at higher temperatures (520580C) for better yields (Figure1c). Remarkably, the results (in red circles) transcend those of nonprecious metal catalysts and are comparable to those of Pt-based catalysts (Pt and Pt-Sn for the ODH of ethane, and Pt-Sn/MgAlO for the DH of ethane; see also FigureS2);5c, 12 the S was maintained at values of 100, 92, and 80% at C2H6 conversions (X ) of 9.2, 19, and 43%. A long-term run was operated to determine catalyst stability over a total of 550h at varying gas hourly space velocities (GHSV) and temperatures (Figure1d). An exclusive ethylene yield was found at a low X (high GHSV and low temperature) in the first 30h. Upon intensifying such conditions to facilitate ethane conversion, a decrease in S was mainly attributed to the production of CO.To clarify the catalytic mechanism, the BN catalysts were characterized by microscopy and spectroscopy techniques before and after the long-term run (FiguresS1 and S4-S7). Basically, the physical properties (e.g., morphology, crystallinity, specific surface area, and combustion loss) remained unchanged after the reaction. The absence of any sign of coke formation or structural damage strongly endorsed the prominent stability of the catalysts. Chemical changes in the s-BN catalyst, on the other hand, were evident by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, FigureS7ac) and Raman and infrared (IR) spectroscopy (FigureS7d, e). Interestingly, a BO signature (at a binding energy of 193eV in the B1s spectrum)13 emerged in the used catalyst (after high X operation), whereas no change in the N1s feature was observed. Consistently, the vibrational features found by Raman ( =882cm1, BO from H3BO3)14 and IR ( =1217cm1 for BO and =3231cm1 for OH)15 spectroscopy suggested the presence of BO species without any clear change in the N-related vibrations. Given that the active sites are likely located at the edges of the s-BN nanosheets, these results indicate that the edge B atoms must be involved in O2 activation.Operando diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier-transform (DRIFT) spectroscopy coupled with on-line gas chromatography (GC) for simultaneous monitoring of the catalyst and the ODH reaction was conducted to understand the reaction process better. Dynamic evolution of the s-BN catalyst under aerobic and anaerobic conditions was investigated by switching the feed gas from Ar to C2H6/Ar (step1), O2/Ar (step2), C2H6/Ar (step3), and finally C2H6/O2 (step4). The DRIFT difference spectra and the corresponding GC profiles for each step are shown in Figure2a,b. The strong alkyl stretching ( =2949cm1) signal in steps1 and 3 is attributable to the presence of ethane gas. More interesting is the emergence of the BH stretching ( =2480cm1) and CH2 bending vibrations ( =2774, 2753, and 1470cm1)15, 16 from ethane CH activation in the absence of oxygen. This is evidence for direct H abstraction from ethane by the edge B atoms of s-BN; the activated ethyl radical should be stabilized by the adjacent nitrogen atoms,8a as the existence of the radical is endorsed by electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy (FigureS7f). Note that ethane activation does not imply complete CH dissociation leading to ethylene generation, as neither ethane conversion nor olefin product was observed under anaerobic conditions (Figure2b, steps1 and 3). Upon switching the feed gas from ethane to oxygen, the disappearance of surface ethyl species ( =1450, 2753, and 2774cm1; step2 in Figure2a) and the generation of ethylene (7.5%, step2 in Figure2b) suggest that O2 is necessary to complete the catalytic cycle. In other words, full cleavage of activated ethyl CH and restoration of the BN sites are finally accomplished by the action of O2 and hence the formation of ethylene.Figure 2 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint a)Operando DRIFT difference spectra and b)the corresponding GC profiles at 550C under aerobic/anaerobic conditions. The flow gas was switched from Ar to C2H6/Ar (step1), O2/Ar (step2), C2H6/Ar (step3), and finally C2H6/O2 (step4).Notably, the appearance of CO ( =1067cm1) and BO ( =1220cm1) signatures17 at higher X (by reducing the GHSV, step4) corresponds to some loss in the S to CO production. This suggests there is sufficient time and temperature to allow O2 activation (and reaction) at the BN edges, which would create BO sites for enhanced X . By forming more polarized BO terminals at the edges, the oxidizing power should be more aggressive and should thus give rise to a higher X and combustion products. This is the reason why b-BN (containing BO sites, FigureS3) cannot deliver ethylene exclusively (Figure1a). The catalytic circle at high X should be completed by depletion and regeneration of the BO sites, as proposed in a recent report.8a The stage at which O2 is indeed activated was revealed by an 18O isotope tracer, in the presence and absence of ethane. Evidence for O2 activation could be found by atomic exchange between 16O2 and 18O2 to form 16O18O. Interestingly, the exchange only occurred in the presence of ethane (Figure3), and consequently, the dipolar BN edges did not directly activate O2, which only proceeded by the aid of ethane. This is reinforced by the absence of a BO vibration ( =1220cm1) under flow of only O2 (Figure2a, step2), which revealed the inability of s-BN to activate (or react with) O2 under mild conditions. As such, the inhibition of DOS formation hence strangled the generation of combustion products (i.e., CO and CO2) for the exclusive conversion of ethane into ethylene.Figure 3 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint The 18O isotope tracer experiment with switching 16O2 and 18O2 in the presence and absence of ethane at 550C.Altogether, we were able to draw two possible catalytic pathways, as determined by the bond-breaking position of ethane (Scheme1). Under low-temperature conditions (X <10%, kinetic measuring region), ethane promotes the formation of BOH active sites, which thereby facilitates nearly direct dehydrogenation of ethane by the aid of adsorbed O2 to produce ethylene and H2. The adsorption model of O2 and the formation of BOH active sites were proposed by Hermans etal. and Lu etal.8, 10 In such a case, O2 only comes into play for the preliminary activation toward the edges of BN to form BOH active sites. Kinetic studies (FigureS8d) suggest that the ethane conversion is dependent on adsorbed O2 (reaction order of O2=0.02). At high reaction temperatures (X >10%, nonkinetic measuring region), the formation of BO active sites from adsorbed O2, which is capable of abstracting a hydrogen atom from ethane to form C2H4 and H2O, cannot be ruled out. FigureS8a suggests that ethane conversion is dependent on the partial pressure of gaseous O2 but is not dependent on adsorbed O2 if the reaction temperature is above 550C. Likewise, kinetic measurements with ethylene as a reactant show that the consumption of gaseous O2 (O2 order=0.57) is indispensable for ethylene conversion. It can therefore be proposed that the presence of ethane promotes the activation of adsorbed O2 towards the edges of BN and the formation of BO(H) sites, and the dehydrogenation circle is finally completed over the BO sites. A detailed comparison between the roles of the BO and BOH groups in the ODH reaction of alkanes is still of value for deep understanding of the reaction mechanism.Scheme 1 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Schematic pathway for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane on boron nitride nanosheets (s-BN). Kinetic measurements were performed at low temperature (<550C) or under high GHSV (60Lg1h1) conditions to maintain a low substrate conversion (<10%) and to rule out the influence of product generation. Conversely, the reaction conducted at a high conversion/temperature (X >10%, T>550C) could not reflect the intrinsic kinetic properties.In summary, a high-surface-area boron nitride nanosheet (s-BN) catalyst provided effective active sites for the activation of ethane in the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reaction with unprecedented 100% selectivity towards ethylene at approximately 10% conversion and a still-remarkable olefin yield at higher conversions that were close to those of state-of-the-art Pt-Sn catalysts. Our observations with operando spectroscopy offered important messages towards the understanding of the ODH reaction and the rational design of catalysts, particularly those of the nonmetal category: O2 adsorption but not dissociation is key to a combustion-free paraffin ODH reaction. The active sites of BO(H) are formed at the BN edges by the aid of ethane, and the formed BO sites can abstract a hydrogen atom from ethane with the assistance of O2. Lastly, this work provides an in-depth understanding of the ODH reaction of alkanes, and we anticipate that it will pave the way for the true on-purpose production of olefins from paraffin.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how does understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 