<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1">
      <Quotes>
          [1] "We report a novel AuAg alloy catalyst supported on mesoporous aluminosilicate AuAg@MCM prepared by a one-pot synthesis procedure, which is very active for low-temperature CO oxidation."
          [2] "The activity was highly dependent on the hydrogen pretreatment conditions."
          [3] "Calcination led to complete phase segregation of the AuAg alloy and the catalyst surface is greatly enriched with AgBr after the calcination process."
          [4] "However, subsequent reduction treatment removed Br- completely and the AuAg alloy was formed again."
          [5] "A DFT calculation shows that CO and O2 coadsorption on neighboring sites on the AuAg alloy was stronger than that on either Au or Ag."
          [6] "The strong synergism in the coadsorption of CO and O2 on the AuAg nanoparticle can thus explain the observed synergetic effect in catalysis."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The evolution of bimetallic catalysts in heterogeneous catalysis since their commercial introduction has been significant, particularly in bridging the "materials gap" and "pressure gap" between model surfaces and industrially relevant supported catalysts. Their unique electronic and chemical properties have contributed to this advancement. The document discusses the synthesis of a novel AuAg alloy catalyst, AuAg@MCM, which exhibits exceptional activity in low-temperature CO oxidation. The catalyst's activity is highly dependent on hydrogen pretreatment conditions. During the calcination process, the AuAg alloy undergoes phase segregation, enriching the surface with AgBr. Subsequent reduction treatment removes Br- and restores the AuAg alloy structure. The DFT calculation reveals that the AuAg alloy exhibits a stronger synergistic effect in the coadsorption of CO and O2 on neighboring sites compared to either Au or Ag individually. This synergy explains the observed catalytic synergetic effect.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          自商业引入以来，双金属催化剂在异相催化中的发展已经取得了显著的进步，特别是成功地跨越了“材料差距”和“压力差距”，将模型表面与工业相关支持催化剂联系起来。它们独特的电子和化学性质对这一进步做出了贡献。本文讨论了一种新型AuAg合金催化剂AuAg@MCM的合成，该催化剂在低温CO氧化中表现出极高的活性。催化剂的活性高度依赖于氢前处理条件。在煅烧过程中，AuAg合金经历相分离，表面富集AgBr。随后的还原处理完全去除Br-并恢复了AuAg合金结构。密度泛函理论（DFT）计算表明，AuAg合金在邻近位点上CO和O2的共吸附比单独的Au或Ag更强。这种协同作用解释了观察到的催化协同效应。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
   <Question number="2">
      <Quotes>
          [1] "Since Haruta's initial report 1 on the exceptionally high activity of supported gold catalysts, extensive research work both in fundamental and in application has been carried out in order to understand the origin of the surprisingly active catalytic behavior of the gold nanoparticle."
          [2] "It has been established that the catalytic performance of the gold nanoparticle is sensitive to the particle size, the support, and the preparation procedure."
          [3] "One way to obtain an active gold catalyst on an inert support is to make nanoparticles of gold alloy with a second metal that plays the role of activating oxygen."
          [4] "For the alloy catalyst, the average particle size is rather large, 2030 nm. In this alloy system, the size effect is no longer a critical factor, whereas Ag is believed to play a key role in the activation of oxygen."
          [5] "In our bimetallic catalyst system, the pretreatment effect becomes more complex because the gas environment during pretreatment may affect the preferential surface segregation of one of the two metals."
          [6] "The special calcination-reduction process is crucial for the formation of AuAg alloy nanoparticles with surface enrichment of Ag. The resulting nearly 1:1 Au/Ag surface ratio gives optimum catalytic activity."
          [7] "Reduction at lower temperatures may be not enough to remove Br- completely or not enough to form the AuAg alloy. Alternatively, a temperature of reduction that is too high may lead to further enlargement of the particles or may partially destroy the mesoporous structure."
          [8] "Our EPR measurement indicates that by alloying Ag with Au (Figure 9c), the adsorption and activation of oxygen on the catalyst surface became stronger. Further coadsorption of a CO molecule makes the oxygen adsorption even stronger (Figure 9d)."
          [9] "The Au and Ag monometallic particles were modeled with a 55-atom cluster in an icosahedral structure as shown in Figure 10. We have calculated the adsorption energies for CO and O2 at various sites on the Au55 and Ag55 monometallic particles."
          [10] "For the AuAg alloy cluster, we constructed the ordered Au25Ag30 alloy cluster, which keeps the icosahedral structure for comparison with the monometallic clusters, and the atomic positions of Au and Ag atoms are arranged to have optimal adsorptions for both CO and O2 as discussed."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          How have bimetallic catalysts evolved in heterogeneous catalysis since their commercial introduction, and how do their unique electronic and chemical properties contribute to bridging the "materials gap" and "pressure gap" between model surfaces and industrially relevant supported catalysts in both fundamental research and practical applications?

          Bimetallic catalysts have evolved significantly since their commercial introduction, becoming increasingly important in both fundamental research and practical applications. These catalysts combine two metals to create a synergistic effect, enhancing their catalytic properties. Specifically, the unique electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic catalysts enable them to bridge the "materials gap" and "pressure gap" between model surfaces and industrially relevant supported catalysts.

          The evolution of bimetallic catalysts involves understanding the origins of the high activity of supported gold catalysts, optimizing the composition and structure of bimetallic catalysts, including controlling particle size, support selection, and preparation methods. The discovery of the synergistic effect between metals, particularly in the context of gold-alloy catalysts, has been pivotal. The electronic and chemical properties of bimetallic catalysts, especially when compared to their monometallic counterparts, play a crucial role in their enhanced catalytic performance.

          In fundamental research, bimetallic catalysts serve as models for understanding complex chemical transformations at the molecular level. Their use in practical applications spans numerous industries, including petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals, and environmental technologies, where they are employed in processes requiring efficient conversion or transformation of reactants into desired products.

          In terms of optimization and control, advances in synthesis techniques have enabled the precise control of bimetallic catalyst properties, including the optimization of particle size, composition, and structure, which are critical for achieving high catalytic activity under industrially relevant conditions.

          The complex nature of the pretreatment process for bimetallic catalysts has become more nuanced due to the influence of the gas environment on the surface segregation of metals. Careful control of pretreatment conditions, including temperature, atmosphere, and duration, is essential for achieving optimal catalyst performance.

          Surface enrichment and particle size control contribute to the high catalytic activity of these catalysts, particularly in the formation of alloy nanoparticles through a calcination-reduction process. The resulting nearly 1:1 Au/Ag surface ratio gives optimum catalytic activity.

          Quantum chemical calculations, such as those using density functional theory (DFT), provide insights into the adsorption energies and synergistic effects between CO and O2 on the surface of AuAg alloy nanoparticles. These calculations confirm the enhanced catalytic activity of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in oxygen-activation reactions.

          The choice of support, such as mesoporous aluminosilicate, plays a critical role in accommodating the bimetallic nanoparticles and influencing their activity. The support can stabilize the nanoparticles, facilitate adsorption and diffusion of reactants, and enhance the overall catalytic performance.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          自商业应用以来，双金属催化剂在异质催化领域经历了显著的发展，不仅在基础研究中成为理解催化行为的重要工具，也在实际应用中发挥着关键作用。这些催化剂通过结合两种金属来创造协同效应，显著提升了其催化性能。它们独特的电子和化学性质对跨越“材料差距”和“压力差距”，将模型表面与工业相关支持催化剂联系起来起到了重要作用。

          双金属催化剂的发展包括理解支持金催化剂高活性的起源，优化双金属催化剂的组成和结构，包括控制颗粒大小、支持选择和制备方法。发现在金属组合中，特别是金合金催化剂中的协同效应具有决定性意义。双金属催化剂与单金属催化剂相比，其独特的电子和化学性质在其增强催化性能中扮演着关键角色。

          在基础研究中，双金属催化剂作为分子层次上复杂化学转变的模型，对于促进催化过程的理解至关重要。它们在石油化工、制药、环保等多个行业中的应用涵盖了原料转换或产物生成过程，确保高效且有针对性的产品生产。

          为了实现高催化活性的工业应用，对合成技术的改进使得能够精确控制双金属催化剂的性质，包括颗粒大小、组成和结构的优化，这是在工业条件下实现高催化活性的关键。

          前处理过程的复杂性对于双金属催化剂而言变得更加微妙，这主要是由于气体环境对金属表面分层的影响。仔细控制前处理条件，包括温度、气氛和持续时间，对于实现最佳催化剂性能至关重要。

          表面富集和颗粒尺寸控制对于这些催化剂的高催化活性至关重要，尤其是在通过煅烧-还原过程形成合金纳米颗粒时。形成的几乎1:1的Au/Ag表面比例给出了最佳催化活性。

          使用密度泛函理论（DFT）等量子化学计算提供了关于AuAg合金纳米颗粒表面CO和O2吸附能及其协同效应的见解。这些计算证实了双金属催化剂在氧激活反应中的增强催化活性。

          支撑的选择，如介孔铝硅酸盐，对于容纳双金属纳米颗粒并影响其活性至关重要。支撑可以稳定纳米颗粒，促进反应物的吸附和扩散，并整体提升催化性能。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
