<quotes>
[1] "The synthesis of organometallic compounds with alkyl ligands via the direct oxidative addition (C-H bond scission) of saturated hydrocarbons to metal atoms is in general not practical because of the low reactivity of those alkanes."
[2] "There are, however,several easier routes for the synthesis of alkyl-metal organometallic complexes, such as, for instance, the oxidative addition of alkyl halides to metal center."
[3] "Alkyl halide insertion reactions can also be induced on transition metal surfaces."
[4] "In addition to alkyl groups, unsaturated hydrocarbons can also a bond to one or more metal centers to form alkenyl (vinyl), alkynyl (acetylide), or aryl ligands."
[5] "The stability of alkyl fragments. As mentioned earlier,metal-carbon C7 bonds are not inherently weak;compounds with alkyl ligands are kinetically unstable only because there are a number of decomposition routes readily available to them."
[6] "Metal complexes containing unsaturated carbenes such as vinylidenes are quite reactive, but can nevertheless be isolated."
[7] "Alkylidenes are usually prepared either by conversion of terminal alkynes, or by protonation or alkylation of metal acetylides."
[8] "Ethylidyne has been one of the most studied moieties in surface science in recent years; a wide range of structural, electronic, and vibrational techniques have been used for that purpose."
[9] "Ethylidyne chemisorbs with its C-C bond parallel to the surface but with its molecular plane tilted by 50",suggestive of a di-oh three-atom interaction."
[10] "The flat adsorption geometry for acetylene on Pt(ll1) has also been confirmed by ARUPS data."
[11] "Alkynes bind to metals in a similar manner as olefins. However, because of their larger electro- negativity, there is more back-donation of metal d electrons to the empty X* antibonding orbitals in the alkynes, and therefore, the bonding to the metal is stronger."
[12] "Conjugated alkenes such as butadiene could be considered as four-electron donors, since both olefinic bonds can coordinate to the central metal atom, but the actual bonding is better regarded as the result of the interaction of the delocalized X system of the diene with the d orbitals of the metal."
[13] "In most cases the scission of saturated C-H bonds requires complexes with labile ligands,so they can be easily released to produce the electron- deficient electrophilic metal centers needed for three- center two-electron agostic interactions."
[14] "Direct evidence for the formation of alkane-metal adducts is not yet available, the initial metal-HC interaction is believed to be agostic."
[15] "The activation barrier associated with the decomposition of alkanes on metal surfaces is in most cases lower than 20 kcal/mo1,471-474,484 less than one-fifth of the C-H bond energy in hydrocarbons."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The synthesis of alkyl ligands through direct oxidative addition of saturated hydrocarbons to metal centers is generally impractical due to the low reactivity of alkanes. However, there are alternative routes such as oxidative addition of alkyl halides to metal centers or alkyl halide insertion reactions on metal surfaces. Unsaturated hydrocarbons can also bond to metal centers to form alkenyl, alkynyl, or aryl ligands. The stability of alkyl fragments is maintained by decomposition routes rather than inherent weakness of metal-carbon C7 bonds. 

2. Unsaturated carbenes like vinylidenes are reactive but can be isolated. Alkylidenes are typically prepared through conversion of alkynes, protonation, or alkylation of metal acetylides.

3. Ethylidyne, one of the most studied moieties in surface science, chemisorbs with its C-C bond parallel to the surface and its molecular plane tilted, indicative of a di-oh three-atom interaction. This is supported by ARUPS data for acetylene adsorption on Pt(ll1).

4. Alkynes bond similarly to olefins, but due to their higher electronegativity, they donate more electrons to the metal, resulting in stronger bonding. 

5. Conjugated alkenes can be considered four-electron donors when coordinating to a metal atom, but the actual bonding is a result of the interaction of the delocalized X system with the metal d orbitals.

6. Alkane activation requires complexes with labile ligands to release electron-deficient electrophilic metal centers for three-center two-electron agostic interactions. 

7. The initial metal-HC interaction is believed to be agostic, even though direct evidence for alkane-metal adducts is lacking.

8. The activation barrier for alkane decomposition on metal surfaces is typically less than 20 kcal/mol, significantly lower than the C-H bond energy in hydrocarbons.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 直接通过氧化添加法合成烷基配体到金属中心的途径由于烷烃的低活性而通常不可行。然而，可以通过氧化添加烷基卤化物到金属中心或在金属表面上插入烷基卤化物等替代途径。不饱和烃还可以与金属中心形成烯基、炔基或芳基配体。烷基碎片的稳定性由分解途径维持，而不是金属碳C7键的内在弱点。

2. 不饱和碳烯如乙烯基二烯可以被隔离。烷基烯通过转化炔、质子化或金属乙酸酯的烷基化制备。

3. 乙基烯作为表面科学中最广泛研究的物种之一，以它的C-C键平行于表面和分子平面倾斜50度的方式吸附，暗示着一个三原子的di-oh结构。这得到了铂(ll1)表面丙烯吸附的ARUPS数据的支持。

4. 炔与烯类似地结合，但由于其更高的电负性，它们向金属捐赠更多的电子，导致更强的结合。

5. 当协调到金属原子时，共轭双烯可以被视为四电子供体，但实际的结合是delocalized X系统与金属d轨道的相互作用的结果。

6. 甲烷激活需要具有易解配体的复合物来释放电子缺陷的亲电金属中心进行三中心两个电子的agostic相互作用。

7. 甲烷在金属表面的分解激活壁垒通常低于20 kcal/mol，远低于碳氢化合物中的C-H键能。

8. 甲烷分解在金属表面上的激活壁垒通常小于20 kcal/mol，显著低于碳氢化合物中的C-H键能。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
