I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


The fact that on Cu(100) 8-H elimination is much faster in 3-hexyl groups than in cyclohexyl moieties indicates that molecular strain also hinders the reaction, and suggests a cyclic transition state?24 Finally, a mo- lecular cluster calculation for the decomposition of isobutyl decomposition on aluminum surfaces favors a four-center planar intermediate?12 The activation barrier for 8 elimination ranges from 24 to 37 kcaVmol on aluminum,5I6 but is less than 10 kcaVmol on most transition metal sur- f a c e
.
This difference is paralleled by differences in the thermodynamics of the reaction,and therefore may be related to the affinity of the different surfaces for atomic hydrogen. Also, the elimination of a deuterium atom from an ethyl group is about 10 times slower than the elimination of a normal hydrogen on either C  ( 1 0 0 ) or Fe(lOO)lOz surfaces;since normal primary isotope effects can at the most account for a factor of 5,the remaining difference must be due either to tunneling or to secondary effects. The reaction rate can be reduced further by caging effects, because a large ensemble of atoms is required to accommodate the resulting products;525 this may be related to the increase in coordination number required for the reaction in organometallic systems. Some other signilicant trends have been observed (1) The desorption temperature of alkenes from alkyl groups on Ni(100) shifts to higher temperature with increasing chain length,perhaps because of the increase in adsorption energy of the pr0ducts.4 (2) Branched alkyls yield more alkenes than linear ones (relative to the alkane produced by the competing reductive elimination reaction), and they do so at lower temperatures. This effect can be explained at least in part by steric and entropic arguments. (3) Open surfaces are normally 2888 Chemical Reviews, 1995, Vol. 95, No. 8 more active than close-packed ones: the formation of ethylene from ethyl peaks around 240 K in tem- perature-programmed desorption on Cu(lOO), but only about 225 Kon Cu(110).526 This difference may be correlated to the requirement of low-coordination numbers for the j3-H elimination in organometallic complexes. (4) j3-H elimination is easier on earlier transition metals: it occurs below 200 K on nickel,palladium, or platinum surfaces, at around 230-250 K on copper, and at about 260-310 K on gold. (5) Most metals are efficient at promoting j3-hydride elimination reactions, but a few late transition metals tend to favor the reductive elimination route instead.
On silver in particular alkyl groups couple with 100% efficiency,@ perhaps because the low affinity of silver for hydrogen inhibits any hydride elimination steps;the same lack of elimination activity has been reported in silver complees.5 Hydride elimination from the a position, i.e., from the carbon bonded to the metal, is generally much less favorable than from the j3 carbon, but it is operative in ligands with no j3 hydrogens such as methyl, neopentyl, and b e n  y l .   - The simplest case of an a-H elimination step is the conversion of methyl to methylene groups. In contrast to the olefin produced in j3-elimination reactions, though, the methylene moiety that results from a-H abstraction is not stable in free form, and therefore remains coordinated to the metal. Moreover, methylene- hydride complexes are usually unstable and therefore difficult to isolate. In spite of the lack of direct evidence for the mechanism for this reaction, some kinetic data suggest that a-elimination is facile in early transition metal complexes, even in some coordinated alkyl moieties with j3-hdrogens.5'3.58.529 A few coordinatively unsaturated methyl complexes can also exist in equilibrium with their corresponding methylene hydride isomer, a process that promotes fast H-D exchange at the a poition.4'.The same methyl-methylene equilibrium can also be attained in clsters,5' but in dialkyl organometallic com- pounds the formation of carbene ligands is usually accompanied by the subsequent elimination of an alkane molecule in a disproportionation reaction which may take place either through the formation of a metal hydride intermediate or directly via a four- center activated complex (where the a-abstraction step is bypassed)?32 Intermolecular a-hydride ab- straction reactions are possible as we11.533.534 On surfaces, alkyl a-hydride elimination reactions have so far only been observed in methyl groups. The conversion of methyl moieties to methylene groups was clearly established on Pt(ll1) by reflection- absorption infrared spectroscopy (RAIRS).52535 In- direct evidence for such a reaction in other cases comes from temperature-programmed desorp- tion36*a,47,62 and photoelectron spectrocopf3 experi- ments. The multiple H-D exchange seen for methyl groups on Pt(ll1) suggests an activation barrier of less than 10 kcdmol for the dehydrogenation of those moietie.I'* A fast alkyl-alkylidene equilibrium may also be one of the key steps in the mechanism of H-D exchange reactions in alkanes on transition metal  a t a l y s t s ?   .Zaera C-C Bond Scission lsobutene TPD from Neopentyl I Ni(100) Temperature I K Figure
10. Isobutene temperature-programmed desorp.
tion (TPD) spectra from neopentyl iodide on Ni(lOO).539-541 This is perhaps the best surface science example for C-C bond-scission reactions. The mechanism of this reaction is still not well understood, but the fact that only normal isobutene is formed even when starting with 1,l-dideute- rioneopentyl iodide indicates that the bond that breaks is that between the a and B carbons. It is also quite likely that at least one dehydrogenation step precedes this C-C cleavage, since a normal kinetic isotope effect is seen for the overall reaction (the peak shifls by about 30 K to higher temperatures in the a-deuterated neopentyl case) Elimination at positions further along the carbon chain, whenever possible, usually yields cyclic prod- u c t  . ' The selectivity for y- versus a-hydride e l i - nation in inorganic compounds depends on the nature of the metal complex. For example, neopentyl tan- talum compounds tend to form stable methylenic species via an a-hydride elimination step,17' but analogous platinum complexes undergo elimination at the y position to yield metallacyclobutane com- pounds instead?38 It has been suggested that y eliminations are favored by low-valence late transi- tion metals.No direct evidence is yet available for y-elimination reactions on surfaces. A recent study has identified the production of isobutene from decomposition of neopentyl moieties on Ni(100),539 which additional isotope labeling experiments showed occurs by dis- sociation of the c-C bond closer to the surface (Figure Since the C-C bond cleavage presumably occurs after a number of a-H elimina- tions, this result suggests that a hydrogens are substantially more reactive than y hydrogens.
3. Vinyls, Acefylides, and
AMs Mononuclear transition metal vinyl complexes are rare, but a few vinyl containing clusters, which represent solid surfaces more closely, have been prepared. Coordinated vinyl groups dehydrogenate by either a- or j3-hydride elimination steps to yield i n y l i d e n e   - or acetlene,S respectively. Un- fortunately, little is known about the factors that control the selectivity between those two reaction pathways. On surfaces the mechanism for vinyl dehydrogenation seems to depend on the nature of the transition metal: infrared experiments indicated that the thermal activation of vinyl moieties on Chemistry of Hydrocatboon Moieties Pt(ll1) leads to the formation of a mixture of vi- nylidene and acetylene around 140 K,131 while a preference for pure acetylene formation at much higher temperatures, about 275 K, was seen on Ni(100).128 Much less is known about the dehydrogenation of either acetylides or aryl moieties, in part because they tend to decompose via alternative paths such as protonation or alkylation at the a or j 3 carbons (to form either acetylene, vinyl, or arene ligands), or rearrangement to vinylidene complees." An in- tramolecular ortho hydride abstraction from the phenyl ligand of a tantalum compound yields the corresponding y2-benzyne cmplex," suggesting a chemistry similar to that of vinyl moieties. Little is understood about these reactions on surfaces too.
Acetylides usually dehydrogenate completely to hy- drogen and surface carbon, but it is not yet clear how this reaction proceeds; in many cases the final nature of the remaining surface carbon is not even known.139J41-144J47 Benzyne formation from benzene decomposition has been reported on OS(OOO) and on M O (   O ) ? but the mechanism for the dehydro- genation of chemisorbed aryl moieties is still a mystery.
4. Ca&enes, and Ca&ynes
Carbene ligands are very reactive, especially in monometallic complexes. Thermal decomposition of Fischer-type carbene complexes usually leads to the formation of either one or both of two possible types of alkenes, namely, those formed by ligand dimer- iation:andlor those produced by a 1,2 shift r e a   a n g e m e n t . '   ' - schmck-type carbenes (which include most alkylidenes), on the other hand, nor- mally react via an a-hydride elimination step to yield the coordinated carbyne (alkylidyne), either sponta- neously, via an intramolecular reductive-elimination step,550,551 or after induction by an external b a  e . 5 The intramolecular a-hydride abstraction is believed to occur in one concerted step, starting from a structure with an agostic interaetion between the metal and at least one of the a C-H b0nds.3 Neutron scattering studies have indicated that in tantalum-alkylidene complexes the precursor to this hydride elimination already has a highly distorted sp2-hybridized a carbon, a Ta-C distance shorter than that of a typical double bond, a Ta-H distance only slightly longer than that in metal hydrides, and a C-H distance significantly longer than those in typical hydrocarbons.436 Both infrared and NMR experiments have also highlighted the existence of C-H bonds with low stretching frequencies and W-H coupling constants. It is interesting to note,although, that theoretical studies have revealed that the complete transfer of the a hydrogen to the tantalum center is symmetry forbidden, which ex- plains why the original reactants are so stable.323 Hydride abstraction from a bridging carbene can yield an unsaturated and very reactive bridging carbyne with a pronounced carbonium ion charac- ter.174 Carbynes bind in an analogous way to carbenes,and display similar chemistry.11g For instance, car- bynes can he made to react with either nucleophiles Chemical Reviews. 1995, Vol. 95, No,8 2667 I H-D Exchange in Adsorbed C, Moieties /-x 1 M ) 2 0 0 3 0 0 4 m 5 0 0 Temperature I K Figure 1 1 . methane temperature-programmed desorption (TF'D) spectra from methyl iodide on a deuterium-predosed Pt(ll1) u r f a c e .  '  .  .The product distribution shown in the righehand side highlights the fact that even though close to 85% of the desorbing methane is composed of the CH, and CH3D that results from direct reductive elimina- tion of normal methyl groups with coadsorbed hydrogen or deuterium atoms, there is an additional 8% of CD4 produced by extensive H-D exchange in the surface methyl groups prior to methane formation. An analysis of the kinetic data obtained from these experiments led to the energy diagram shown in the upper right-hand comer. or electrophiles, or to undergo electrocyclic reactions in less reactive solvents. In polynuclear clusters they also rearrange in geometrical configurations which facilitate dehydrogenation reactions. For example,according to neutron and X-ray diffraction studies,the strong interaction in a Fe4 methylidyne butterfly complex between the hydrogen of the methyne and a wing of the frame results in a very short Fe-H distance and a long C-H bond. This suggests a three-center two-electron (agostic) bond between that CH and the metal frame which facilitates the re- moval of methyne hydrogen by weak bases such as methanol. Moreover, NMR studies indicate that a methyne hydrogen can exchange sites with a second bridged hydrogen within the same Since larger alkylidynes do not have a hydrogens, they can only dehydrogenate at other positions further away in the chain, a reaction that does take place in molybdenum553 and tungsten5% monometallic com- pounds, but that is more common in bridging mul- ticenter complexes. In one case, p-bridged ethylidyne diiron complexes react with acids (or bases) to produce the corresponding p-vinylidene com- pound.555-557 A similar conversion has recently been suggested in a triplatinum ethylidyne cluster.558 The dehydrogenation of methylene groups on metal surfaces has only been inferred indirectly. On Pt(lll),for instance, the extensive H-D exchange of methyl groups observed in temperature-pro- grammed desorption experiments has led to the conclusion that methylene and methylidyne moieties must be present in equilibrium on that surface (Figure 11).110,535,536 Coadsorption of CH212 with D 2
on Ni(100) does not lead to any significant exchange,but since methylene groups do eventually dehydro- genate to carbon and hydrogen, methylidynes are likely intermediates on that surface too.112 Recently,it has been shown that on Pt(ll1) ethylidene dehy- 2668 Chemical Reviews, 1995. Vol. 95, No. 8 dmgenates easily (below 200 K) at the a position, but this reaction also produces ethylene and ethyl groups,and may occur via bimolecular steps.194 Little is known about the mechanism for carbyne decomposi- tion (in spite of the extensive studies reported on the chemistry of alkylidynes). Ethylidyne is known to undergo H-D exchange, at least on platinum and rhodium surfaces, but the participation of an initial B-dehydrogenation step in the mechanism of that reaction seems unlikely.559 Alkylidynes do dehydro- genate to other species on most transition metals above 400 K, but the mechanism for this process is also unknown.
5. Olefins
Little is known about the breaking of C-H bonds in IC ligands coordinated to discrete compounds.
Olefin-metal complexes are fairly stable but, if the olefinic ligand within a monometallic complex reacts,it usually does so by interacting with either nucleo- philic or electrophilic agents to form new ligands such as aldehydes, ketones, vinyl ethers, vinyl acetates,amines, and olefin dimers.560 Oxidative addition reactions are not common in these compounds, but can be induced by carrying the reaction out in polar solvents or by substituting the vinylic hydrogen with more electronegative e1ements.m Vinyl bromides, for instance, can undergo oxidative addition at a metal center to form the corresponding complex. Details on the mechanism for the carbon-halide bond scis- sion have been difficult to obtain, because the rates of isomerization of many vinyl halide complexes are either too rapid for isolation of intermediates other than the vinyl adduct, or too slow to accurately measure reaction rates. The reaction between cis- or trans-,%bromo styrene and cobalt, platinum, or nickel complexes occurs with retention of configura- tion at the trigonal carbon,1zo561-s" and truns-l,2- dichloro ethylene also reacts with either PtL or PdL4
(L
= PhzMeP) complexes to afford the trans-2-chloro vinyl These oxidative addition reactions are presumably preceded by coordination of the reactant, since a variety of IC complexes have indeed been isolated and shown to undergo a unimolecular rearrangement to the oxidative a d d  c t .  , The conversion of bPt(F2C=CFBr) into cis-LzPtBr- (CF-CF2), on the other hand, follows a first-order kinetics that depends linearly on the Grunwald- Winstein solvent parameter, suggesting a s N 1 mech- anism instead!67 Similar conflicting results have been obtained in studies on the activation of unsatur- ated C-H bonds: Jones and Feher have reported an example where $-arene coordination precedes the C-H bond-scission step in the aromatic ligand:@ but Stoutland and Bergman found another case in which the attack of the vinyl C-H bond in ethylene occurs before any n c0mplexation.5 A few examples are also known for the oxidative addition of olefins to cluster compounds. The os3- (C0)9(SMe)(H2C=CHz) complex, for instance, con- verts to the corresponding vinyl complex.s7o Reac- tions of ethylene with either HzOS(CO)IO' or
O S  ( C O )  Z
also yield HOS(CO)IO(CH=CHZ) and HZ-
OS(CO)(CH=CHZ),
respectively, but there is no direct evidence available for the formation of an 0 l W 0 2doo Sdoa
F
i g u r e
1 2 .
High-resolution electron energy-loss spectra
(HREELS)
f "
molecular ethylene adsorbed at low tem- peratures on Ni(100) and for the vinyl species that forms after annealing that surface to 175
K
. ' " The conversion of ethylene to vinyl can be clearly seen by the differences between these two spectra,which include the development of new peaks for the C-H stretching and in- and out-of- plane deformation modes around 2920,1405, and 760 em-',respectively. Additional laser-induced desorption (LID) kinetic experiments indicate that this reaction is most likely an elementary oxidative-addition step.127 initial ethylene-osmium complex in those cases.Other examples of olefin addition include the reac- tions of ethylene and R W ( C O )   ,  ' propylene and 0s3(CO)1,236574575 hexadiene and R U  ( C O )  Z ,  '    ' cycloocta-1,5-diene and Ir4(co)1:78.579 cycloodene and M3(CO)12
(M =
Ru or Os),S80.581 and bicyclo[3.2.11- octad,6-diene and R U  ( C O ) , Z ;complexes with ei- ther vinylidene or acetylenic ligands, most likely originating from the conversion of an initial vinyl intermediate, were isolated in all those cases. It is quite possible that metal clusters facilitate C-H bond activation reactions in coordinated olefins because they provide the framework for a multiply coordi- nated final vinyl product; the scission of vinylic C-H bonds in preference to allylic ones gives a clear indication of the unique chemistry generated by the presence of several m e t a l
atoms in a complex?" The contrast between this a-hydride abstraction chemis- try in clusters and the ovemding cyclometalation reaction preferred in mononuclear systems157 may provide some clues for understanding the analogous surface processes.
Olefin dehydrogenation reactions are apparently easier on transition metal surfaces than in the corresponding organometallic compounds. Perhaps one of the best examples for this type of reaction is the conversion of adsorbed ethylene to vinyl species that occurs on Ni(100) around 175 K (Figure 12).1z7-129.584 Kinetic studies proved that the ethyl- ene-vinyl conversion in that case is unimolecular,and that it displays strong normal primary and secondary isotopic effects, suggesting that the reac- tion is an elementary step. More commonly, chemi- sorbd ethylene converts directly to ethylidyne around room temperature. This latter reaction has so far been observed on single-crystal surfaces of ruthe- nium,212 rhodium,'44 iridium,'43 palladium,211 and platinum.13z07z10 Although the mechanism for eth- ylidyne formation is still controversial, it most likely Frequsncylcm-' Chemistry of Hydrocarbon Moieties involves two or more steps. Some evidence has suggested that vinyl may be an intermediate in this process,585 but more recent work favors the formation of either ethyl or ethylidene i n  t e a d .    @ 6 .
Alkynes, Dienes, and Arenes The chemistry of alkynes coordinated to metallic centers resembles in many ways that of olefins.
When terminal acetylenes are x bonded to a transi- tion metal, they tend to rearrange into the tautomeric vinyl complex, presumably by going through a u-co- ordinated acetyl intermediate.587 For instance, Rh- (PR3)2(Cl)(HC=CPh) exists in equilibrium with its o-alkynyl(hydrid0) isomer, and this equilibrium shifts toward the latter compound upon addition of pyridine to the solution.588 In another example, propyne reacts with the highly nucleophilic Ir(C1)(PPh3)3 complex to form a stable a-acetylenic iridium(I1) hydride.589 In clusters the oxidative addition of the C-H acetylenic bond of terminal alkynes commonly yields either p2- or p3-alkynyl complexes.583 For instance, the reaction of phenyl acetylene with H2- Os3(C0)10 produces H O S  ( L L  - C W P  ) ( C O ) I O ,and the reaction of tert-butylacetylene with RUB(CO)I gives H R U  (   - C  C  B U ) ( C O )  .
Even 2-butyne coordinates to HOS(CO)IO and converts to the cor- responding p3-l-methyl allenyl complex.592 The thermal activation of acetylene on transition metal surfaces usually leads to its complete dehy- drogenation (at least under vacuum) via a series of ill-defined steps. The intermediate products from this conversion depend on both the nature and the crystallographic orientation of the  u r f a c e .    , Sev- eral reports, some still contested, claim to have identified a single step for the transformation of chemisorbed acetylene into an acetylide moiety.
Vibrational and electronic spectroscopic data have been used to support this mechanism on Rh(lll)148 and Rh(100),144J45 Ir(lll),la Ni(100),140593594 Ni(l10),141 and Pd(100).139 A similar reaction has also been reported on Pd(lll),but the details of the chemistry of acetylene on that surface are still being de- bated.330,595 Most of the reports mentioned above show that the a-hydride elimination of adsorbed acetylene takes place at reasonably high tempera- tures, above 400 K in some cases, and is often followed by some yet undetermined polymerization steps.
Dienes in metal complexes, like other unsaturated x-coordinated ligands, rarely undergo hydride elimi- nation reactions, but rather react with either elec- trophilic or nucleophilic reagents.560,596,597 The poor reactivity of the vinyl C-H bonds in dienes becomes particularly evident in ligands with allylic hydrogens,for which allyl formation is the only reaction ob- served. Examples of this can be seen in the chem- istry of tricarbonyl(cis-penta-l,3-diene)iron,which upon treatment with Ph&+ yields a dienyl com- p l e  ,   O of cyclopentadiene with nickel complexes,which produces a mixed y3,y5-complex after a se- quence of reactions that starts with the oxidative addition of one cyclopentadiene molecule to form a cyclopentadienyl hydride complex,598 and of a cyclooc- tadiene-ruthenium complex, which also converts into the corresponding dienyl complex.599 No ex- Chemical Reviews, 1995, Vol. 95, No. 8 2669 amples are yet available for the elimination of terminal hydrogens in dienes adsorbed on surfaces.
Oxidative additions of arene C-H bonds to metals have been known since 1965,when Chatt and David- son reported the reaction between naphthalene and a ruthenium complex to yield the corresponding aryl compound.600 The more widespread occurrence and earlier observations of arene vs alkane C-H bond activation has led to the general belief that kinetic factors, namely, prior y2-arene coordination, are responsible for the different reactivity of the two types of bonding.601 In particular, Jones and Feher have demonstrated that q2-arene coordination is required for the activation of a C-H bond in a benzene-Rh complex.568 The small kinetic isotope effect seen in the activation of benzene by (Me5Cp)- Ir(PMe3) also suggests an early transition state for the C-H addition, perhaps something like an initial agostic interaction, as in the reactions with dihydro- gen and alkyl On the other hand, since the difference in strength between metal-aryl and metal-alkyl bonds is greater than that between hydrogen-aryl and hydrogen-alkyl bonds, the case could also be made for thermodynamics been the dominant factor driving the arene a  t i v a t i o n .    , The decomposition of benzene and of other arenes on transition metal surfaces has proven to be quite complex. The final products from these reactions,after the formation of a series of intermediates, are almost always hydrogen and surface carbon. The nature of those intermediates depend on the metal,but are mostly of the C,H type.14*J4' Surface cover- ages can also affect the decomposition mechanism.In some cases the adsorption geometry of benzene changes, from flat lying at low coverages to a tilted configuration near saturation,369,395,396,604 inducing a transition from an initial zr resonant bonding to the y2 configuration supposedly involved in the C-H bond activation in organometallic complexes. Recent reports have in fact offered some evidence for the formation of a benzyne (C6H4) intermediate during the decomposition of benzene on OS(OOO) and Mo- (110) surfaces.365
7. Allylic and Benzylic Bonds
The activation of C-H bonds in olefins and sub- stituted aromatic ligands can occur either at the vinylic/aromatic or at the allylichenzylic positions.
The selectivity between the two in principle depends on a number of kinetic, thermodynamic, electronic,and steric/geometric factors, but since the allylic/ benzylic C-H bond is considerably weaker than the vinylic/aromatic C-H bond (D(H-ally1) = 89 kcal/mol vs D(H-vinyl) 2 108 kcal/mol, and D(H-CH2Ph) = 85 kcal/mol vs D(H-Ph) = 110 kcal/moPo5),the former are in general more reactive. On the basis of this knowledge it is easy to understand why allyl ligands can be easily prepared from coordinated alkenes. For instance, the n-olefinic Ni(PPh3)CsHs complex equili- brates with its allyl hydride isomer NiH(PPh3)C3H5 at temperatures as low as -40 0C,606 and several substituted olefins react with certain palladium and iridium complexes to yield similar allyl p r o d  c t s .   ' , The detection of zr-benzyl complexes has also been reported, either by itself, or in equilibrium with its 2670 Chemical Reviews, 1995, Vol. 95, No. 8 +benzyl isomer,609,610 and examples for dienes were mentioned before.To the best of our knowledge, the only clear example known so far for the conversion of olefins to allyl moieties on surfaces comes from the thermal activation of cyclohexene on Pt(lll),where the C6Hg intermediate isolated between 180 and 280 K was identified by vibrational spectroscopy as an allylic species,304,347,348 but the reaction of isobutene with oxygen-predosed Ag( 110) seems to produce a small amount of an allylic species as The scission of C-H bonds in substituted benzenes was shown to be regiospecific on Ni(lll), Ni(1001, Pd(lll), Pd(100),and Pt(ll1) surfaces.399,611-614 The benzylic hydrogen is always removed first in those molecules, suggest- ing that the initial adsorption geometry of the ring is tilted, and that perhaps a x-benzyl intermediate forms after activation.400 Even the decomposition of diphenylethane molecules on Pt(ll1) yields 1,2- diphenylethylene selectively.615
B. C-H Bond Formation
1, Alkyls One of the most common reactions both in orga- nometallic alkyl hydride complexes and on alkyl surface systems is the recombinatory reductive elimi- nation of the alkyl group with hydrogen to yield a free alkane. This reaction is in principle reversible (the reverse reaction being the oxidative addition step discussed previously), but usually goes only in one direction. The oxidative additiodreductive elimina- tion equilibrium is determined by the overall ther- modynamics of the system, and therefore depends on the relative stability of the product (an A-B mol- ecule) compared to that of the initial reactant (a
M(A)(B)
complex). This is why, on the one hand,alkyl halides add easily to metal centers but alkyl- halide adducts rarely eliminate back the free halide and, on the other, alkanes rarely oxidatively add to metals but alkyl-hydride complexes commonly elimi- nate alkanes. The reductive elimination of either an alkyl and a hydride or two alkyl groups is exother- mic: elimination of methane from Pt(PH3)2(CH3)H,for instance, releases an estimated 19 kcal/mol at room temperature.llg The reductive elimination of alkanes in metal complexes takes place with ease regardless of if the two ligands are bonded to the same or to two different metal centers. There are nevertheless some require- ments for this elimination reaction, which in the case of mononuclear compounds are rather obvious. For one, the two ligands to be eliminated must be coordinated cis to each other.616 Also, since the reaction is nominally accompanied by the reduction of the metal center, it is favored by additional positive charge on that meta1.617-619 For the same reason, the removal of o-donor ligands usually accelerates the reaction,620-622 although there are some notorious exceptions to this rule.623,624 Lastly, elimination from three- or five-coordinate complexes is easier than from four- (planar) or six- (octahedral) coordinated c o m p o  n d s .    , The formation of C-H bonds in reductive elimina- tion reactions is in general favored over H-H and Zaera C-C reductive couplings.627 The preference for C-H over H-H bond formation can be explained entirely by thermodynamic arguments, but C-C coupling reactions, which are even more exothermic than the C-H counterparts, are slower because the transition state requires the reorientation of two highly direc- tional carbon-sp3 hybrid orbitals.628 Both the lack of isotopic scrambling in experiments with mixed la- beled compounds and the preservation of the stere- ochemistry of the coupling alkyl groups have also proven that reductive eliminations are in general concerted and that they occur without previous dissociation of the metal-carbon bond.629,630 The observation of inverse kinetic isotope effects in some cases suggests the formation of a G adduct between the resulting alkane and the metal prior to dissocia- t i  n ,   O but the evidence for such an intermediate is not compelling.
Examples have been reported for intramolecular reductive elimination reactions in gold, silver, copper,manganese, and cobalt c  m p l e x e s .   l - The elimi- nation of two organic ligands from a pair of metal atoms already joined by a bond, however, is sym- metry forbidden, and therefore quite rare.635 R-H elimination from two metal centers has been ob- served, but only after a P-hydride elimination step.For example, the decomposition of [Mo(NMe&OH2- CD3)12 affords the formation of a one-to-one mixture of ethylene CH2=CD2 and ethane C H Z D C D  .The same type of P-hydride elimination-reductive elimi- nation reaction sequence is common in dialkyl mono- nuclear compounds.493 The hydrogenation of chemisorbed alkyl groups on transition metal surfaces has been reported on a number of systems. These C-H reductive elimina- tion reactions are common on most metals, but compete unfavorably with C-C coupling reactions on late transition metals67 and are overtaken by dehy- drogenation reactions to surface carbon and hydrogen on early transition elements.34 The yield for the self- hydrogenation of methyl moieties to methane is quite high, between 50 and 75%,on Ru(OOO), Ni(100),39,40 Ni( 111),636 Pd(100),637,638 Pt(111),49,52
C U (  O O ) ,
Cu(110),62 and Cu(111)61 single-crystal surfaces as well as on films of iron, nickel, palladium, lead, gold,and  o p p e r .   , Ethane formation by ethyl elimina- tion is a less selective reaction, because ,&hydride elimination dominates in most cases where P hydro- gens are a  a i l a b l e .   ,     ' Significant alkane desorp- tion does occur at about the same temperature as olefin formation on surfaces with high ethyl cover- ages, suggesting that a disproportionation reaction similar to that discussed above for dimolybdenum complexes is likely to take place on surfaces as well.Heavier alkyl groups generally behave in a fashion similar to ethyl m  i e t i e s .   , The reductive elimination of alkanes can be greatly enhanced by coadsorbing hydrogen (or deuterium) on the surface: the thermal activation of methyl moi- eties on hydrogen-precovered Pt(lll)llO and Ni(100)l12 surfaces leads to methane yields of nearly loo%, and the conversion of ethyl iodide to ethane increases by a factor of 5 on'Pt(ll1) after similar hydrogen treatments.lll These increases in yield with hydrogen coadsorption are also accompanied by Chemistry of Hydmcarbon Moieties Chemical Reviews, 1995, Vol. 95, No. 8 2671 metal, or a basic c a t a l y  t .  - Finally, aryl- hydride complexes may undergo a reductive elimina- tion step similar to that in alkyl-hydrides to yield arenes:60 but since metal-aryl bonds are stronger than metal-alkyl bonds, the equilibrium in these cases favors the aryl-hydride side of the eqation." On surfaces, the hydrogenation of vinyl groups produces ethylene preferentially;130 no cases have been reported to date for hydride addition to the j3 carbon. Phenyl groups, prepared by decomposition of iodobenzene, can be hydrogenated to benzene on Ni(100)163 and Cu(111)162 surfaces. Given that not many examples exist for the clean isolation of acetyl- ides on metal surfaces, little is known about the reactivity of those moieties.
Hydrocarbon groups multiple u-bonded to organo- metallic compounds can be hydrogenated as well. In the case of carbenes and carbynes this often occurs via a migratory insertion into a metal-H bond, and results in hydrogen addition at the a carbon. In- tramolecular reactions of this type appear to be fade,and are considered to be in many respects analogous to the migratory insertion of carbonyls. For one, the rate of reaction can be increased in both cases by placing a positive charge on the complex. Also, both conversions are often reversible, as in the case of the equilibrium between the methyl and methylene- hydride forms:30 or even between the alkyl-olefin and alkylidene-alkyl taut0mers,5 of tantalum- based complexes. An interesting example of such reversible interconversions involving a late transition metal is that of a pentacoordinated Ir(II1) complex.M8 Similar equilibria are also known in clusters: the 5- Os32-CHz)(CO)lo complex, for example, exists in tautomeric equilibrium with its HOS@-CH)(CO)O is0mer.5 Alkylidyne-hydride complexes can exist in equilibrium with their corresponding carbene isomers the same way, especially in early transition metal compounds, and interchange via an agostic interaction between the carbene and the metal center?51 Alkylidyne clusters can even be hydroge- nated all the way to the free alkane.64s,650 Several pieces of evidence suggest that in those cases the rate constants for the successive C-H bond formation Alkyl Reductive Elimination RD TPD from RI + D / Ni(100)
( C H W
CH$(CH*)31
1 &,CH:CH?I
1 100 200 300 400 500 Temperature
I K
Figure 1 3 .
Monodeuterated alkane temperature-pro- grammed desorption (TPD) spectra from a series of alkyl iodides adsorbed on deuterium-predosed Ni(100) sur- faces.641 This figure shows the ease with which most alkyl groups undergo reductive elimination reactions with coad- sorbed hydrogen (or deuterium): significant amounts of monodeuterated alkanes are produced below 200 K from linear alkyls such as ethyl, n-butyl, and n-hexyl, branched alkyls such as tea-butyl, and cyclic alkyls such as cyclo- hexyl. Double-coordinated metallacycles such as the met- allacyclopentane formed by decomposing 1,4-diidobutane also hydrogenates to the corresponding 1,Cdideuteriobu- tane. Alkyl-hydrogen reductive elimination reactions are common on most transition metal surfaces. a reduction of the energy bamer for the overall reaction, reflecting the fact that the rate-limiting step for alkane production is actually the C-H bond formation when hydrogen is present on the surface (which requires about 5-6 kcaVmol on either nickel or platinum), and not the processes responsible for supplying the required surface hydrogen, as in the self-hydrogenation case. Other alkyl groups can be eliminated as alkanes in a similar manner (Figure 13).6"l
2. Other a-Bonded Species
The hydrogenation of a-bonded hydrocarbon spe- cies other than alkyls has not been studied in detail.
In general, both vinyl and acetylide ligands tend to incorporate hydrogen atoms at the j 3 position. For instance, hydride addition to the CZRUZ(CO)&- CH=CHz)+ complex predominantly yields the p-CHMe product,642 even though some complexed ethylene is produced in that case as well. The formation of olefins (the a-addition product) in these systems is enhanced by the presence of bulky groups on the vinyl ligand, as in the case of a tetraruthenium p-vinyl complex with the j3 carbon of the vinyl attached to a diruthenium  a r b e n e .
Analogously,acetylides are quite reactive toward electrophiles and undergo protonation at the j3 carbon: they form stable vinylidene complexes in the presence of ac- i d  ?
The acetylide hydrogenation to vinylidene is common in monometallic complexes as well as in metal clsters.5 This step is key in the tautomeric isomerization of acetylides to vinylidenes and is facilitated by either a formal positive charge on the steps increases in the sequence k(CX + H) < k(CHX + H) < k(CH2X + H).Temperature-programmed desorption studies for methylene hydrogenation reactions on M0(110), Rh( 1 1
1),Ia6 Ni( Pd(lOO),lsO R(l11 and Cu(110)62 have shown that methane formation occurs around 300, 260, 230, 180, and 280 K respectively,indicating that methylene hydrogenation on transi- tion metals is facile. In fact, the formation of methane from chemisorbed methylene is often lim- ited by the decomposition steps that provide the required surface hydrogen; the hydrogenation steps themselves are much less activated. TPD experi- ments with diiodo methane on Ni(100), for instance,have shown that methane desorption occurs at lower temperatures and with higher yields in the presence of coadsorbed hydrogen."z Additional experiments with coadsorbed deuterium have also indicated that the methylene conversion to methane occurs in two separate steps, via the sequential reductive elimina- tion of methylene and methyl species with the coad- 2672 Chemical Reviews, 1995, Vol. 95, No. 8 Zaera tion of one hydrogen atom at a time.119,665 The limiting step in most cases is the migratory insertion of the coordinated olefin into a metal-H bond (the reverse of the P-hydride elimination reaction dis- cussed before),666-668 which is believed to require a four-center coplanar transition state with an agostic hydrogen atom simultaneously bonded to a carbon atom and the transition metal center. Such a mech- anism justifies the selective cis addition of the M-H bond to the olefin seen in most cases. The possibility of isolating the resulting alkyl intermediate and of studying its subsequent reductive elimination to the alkane is generally limited by the fast rate of the latter reaction. This is, however, not the case in cationic rhodium compounds, where the elimination controls the overall process at low temperatures.669 An alternative mechanism has been proposed in a few cases, mostly for conjugated olefins, which in- clude the formation of an alkyl free radical,670 but this pathway is not common, and since it is not relevant for comparisons with surface reactions, will not be discussed here.
The order in which the reactants coordinate to the metal center during the hydrogenation reaction seems to depend strongly on the nature of the catalyst. In Wilkinson's catalyst, for example, a hydrogen molecule adds oxidatively to the metal center first to form a dihydride, and the olefin coordinates to this intermediate a f t e r  a r d .    .In some rhodium cationic catalysts, on the other hand,it is the olefin that ligates first.669 In both cases the addition of the hydrogen molecule is dissociative and leads to the formation of a dihydride complex, but in other systems the formation of a monohydride com- plex takes place via a nonoxidative, one-step hetero- lytic cleavage instead.671 Regardless of the order in which the ligands coordinate to the metal, however,the olefin usually needs to be attached to the metal before reacting (except in cases where a free radical is involved, see above), and the strength of this metal-olefin bond ultimately controls the selectivity of the catalyst. Consequently,terminal olefins,which are more strongly bonded to the metal, are in general more reactive than alkenes with internal C-C double bonds, and the cis isomers are usually more reactive than the trans  counterpart.' The hydrogenation of olefins (of ethylene in par- ticular) on single-crystal metal surfaces has also been studied in great detai1.586,672-674 These studies in- clude the characterization of the thermal chemistry of olefins chemisorbed on both c1ean223,287,302,675 and hydrogen- and/or d e u t e r i u m - p r e d o  e d    ,    - sur- faces under vacuum as well as catalytic work under atmospheric pressures.652,681-683 The thermal activa- tion of alkenes on late transition metal surfaces almost always yields some alkane, even under vacuum conditions. This self-hydrogenation is initiated by the decomposition of some of the chemisorbed olefins on the surface and is followed by the incorporation of the resulting hydrogen atoms into other alkene molecules. In the presence of surface hydrogen, the initial step is bypassed, and ethane is formed at lower temperatures and with higher yields.676,678,679 The incorporation of hydrogen into the olefin takes place in two consecutive steps, as indicated by the fact that sorbed hydrogen (deuterium), and that the latter is rate limiting, as in organometallic systems. On Pt(ll1) methylidyne hydrogenation is so fast that an equilibrium between methylidyne and methylene is rapidly established on the surface.536 The estimated activation energy for methyl formation from meth- ylene in that case is less than 6 kcallmol, while that for methane production from methyl is about 17 kcall mol (Figure 11). Hydrogenation products have also been detected for ethylidene on Pt(lll).lg4 Because alkylidyne groups are quite stable on metal surfaces, their hydrogenation is much more difficult to achieve. The reaction can be driven under atmospheric pressures of h y d r  g e n ,   l @ but it has never been observed under vacuum conditions. Nev- ertheless, ethylidyne exchanges its hydrogens with surface d e  t e r i u m ,    ,and although the mechanism for that reaction has yet to be determined, it is logical to think that it most likely starts with a hydrogena- tion step (see later).Exposure of vinylidene complexes either to acids or to hydrogen gas leads to the incorporation of hydrogen atoms at the p position, the same as for vinyls and acetylides, and yields Hydrides can also add at the a carbon to produce vinyl derivatives, but only if the complex is not readily deprotonated by bases.657 The formation of alkylidynes dominates in cluster systems, and has also been observed on both Pd(lll)204 and Pt(lll).131 In the latter case, however, the vinylidene to ethyli- dyne conversion involves the formation of an ethylene intermediate on the surface. 3 .Olefins The homogeneous catalytic hydrogenation of olefins is one area within the field of organometallic chem- istry that has received a great deal of attention.Many catalysts have been developed for this purpose but, unfortunately, very few have shown to be of practical use to date.658-661 A few special cases are worth mentioning here. For example, Wilkinson's catalyst, a RhCl(PPH& complex discovered in 1964 by Wilkinson and Coffey, is the best known and most remarkable homogeneous olefin hydrogenation cata- lyst,659,662 because it displays unique regioselective and stereoselective properties not matched by any known heterogeneous counterpart. A family of cat- ionic rhodium catalysts also yields high enantiose- lectivity in asymmetric hydrogenation processes,663 and a highly stable iridium catalyst has been devel- oped for the fast reduction of hindered olefins under oxygen atmospheres.664 A few of these homogeneous systems are used for specific synthetic processes, but heterogeneous catalysts are in general preferred because organometallic compounds are usually more sensitive to impurities, tend to promote olefin rear- rangements, and are quite expensive and difficult to recover.The majority of the organometallic olefin hydroge- nation catalysts available nowadays are coordina- tively unsaturated, since vacant sites are usually required for both the complexation of the substrate (the olefin) and the incorporation of the hydrogen atoms. Mechanistic studies indicate that hydrogena- tion occurs in a stepwise fashion, via the incorpora- Chemistry of Hydrocarbon Moieties Chemical Reviews. 1995, Vol. 95, No. 8 2673 adsorb on the surface for the reaction to occur. In connection with this, recent laser-induced desorption kinetic studies have shown that at low enough temperatures the extent of the H-D exchange in ethylene coadsorbed with deuterium on F't(ll1) (a reaction believed to start by the migratory insertion of the olefin into the M-H bond, see below) is limited to a fraction of the total molecules and results in the incorporation of an average of only about one deute- rium atom per ethylene.686 This suggests that the mobility of hydrogen on the surface is hindered by the olefin and that the reaction only takes place within reactants adsorbed in close proximity to each other. Other complications have also been identified for the mechanism of the catalytic hydrogenation of ethylene under atmospheric pressures. In experi- ments using normal ethylene and deuterium, for example, ethane molecules with up to six deuterium atoms are produced (the main product being DI- ethane). Strongly bound carbonaceous deposits (eth- ylidyne moieties in the case of ethylene) also form on the surface within seconds of initiating the reac- tion; the role of those moieties in the overall mech- anism is still a matter of debate.S86.652.681.68z,687
4. Alkynes, Dienes, Arenes, and Allyls
Although not common, coordinated alkynes may sometimes undergo migratory insertion reactions into metal-hydrogen bonds in a similar fashion to that of  alkene.-" The insertion is usually syn, so the stereochemistry of the carbons is but the initially formed cis-vinyl complex can then isomerize to the tram tautomer (possibly via a q2-vinyl inter- mediate) if there is a vacant coordination site on the metal center.692 On the basis of both theoretical and experimental results, the reaction has been proposed to take place via a four-center transition state involv- ing the metal, the metal-coordinated hydrogen, and the two acetylenic  carbon!.
The migratory insertion of conjugated dienes into metal-hydrogen bonds is much easier than that of simple olefins, mostly because they result in the formation of a stable n-allylic c o m p l e  ;   ' . the intramolecular character of this reaction is usually manifested in the stereoselectivity of the product.Arenes can also be hydrogenated with organometallic catalysts: some of those catalysts are capable of promoting hydrogenation of all but one aromatic ring in polycyclic c o m p o u n d  , 6   - while others can also hydrogenate benzene and other simple monocyclic molecule.-' The reaction in the latter case is slow, usually starts after an induction period, and only proceeds for a few turnovers. High stereoselec- tivity has been reported in some cases,71-7n4 but detailed studies are sparse, and the homogeneous nature of some of the reactions is doubtful.Some allyl complexes are highly electrophilic and can therefore be easily attacked by a variety of nucleophiles and electrophiles to yield the corre- sponding olefin. In the case of nucleophilic attacks,the addition always occurs at the noncomplexed side of the ligand. Olefin isomerization presumably pro- ceeds via an allyl complex i   t e r m e d i a t e .    .The hydrogenation of acetylene on single-crystal surfaces under vacuum has so far been reported on Mechanism for Figure
14. Ethane temperature-programmed desorption
(TPD)
studies for ethylene hydrogenation on F't(lll).5"."1.8" The use of isotopic labeling has allowed for the identifica- tion of some of the mechanistic details of this reaction. The left panel, for instance, shows that c2D6, CzDsH, and
C2D4H2
are all produced from perdeuterioethylene coad- sorbed with normal hydrogen, indicating that ethylene hydrogenation is a stepwise reaction. The most likely mechanism for this reaction is one where the ethylene molecules are first inserted into metal-hydrogen bonds to form alkyl groups, and where those alkyl speeies then undergo a reductive elimination step with an additional hydrogen atom to yield ethane. The right panel shows that the desorption of ethane from ethyl groups takes place at much lower temperatures than from ethylene, which means that the initial alkyl formation is rate-limiting in olefin hydrogenation. The ethyl intermediates can also undergo a 8-hydride elimination step, leading to the fast ethylene- ethyl interconversion that explains the extensive H-D exchange observed in adsorbed ethylene. the hydrogenation of ethylene on platinum surfaces predosed with a mixture of hydrogen and deuterium yields a mixture of CZH,
CZHD,
and CZ&DZ (Figure 14).679 The first step in the conversion of alkenes to alkanes must be a migratory insertion of the olefin into a metal-hydrogen bond, which produces an alkyl moiety, and the second the reductive elimina- tion of that alkyl with an additional surface hydro- gen. The lack of any clear evidence for stereoselec- tivity in the addition of the hydrogen atoms into the double bond even in rigid molecules such as bicyclo- [2.2.2loctene or n o r b  r a n e provides convincing proof for the formation of the alkyl intermediate. One study has reported the syn addition of two deuteri- ums to the endo face of the double bond of norbor- nadiene coordinated to a dimethylplatinum moiety,= but that reaction is believed to occur on a solid P t
surface after transfer of the ligand from the complex;the results were consistent with the mechanism proposed above where the formation of a surface alkyl moiety is followed by interchange with surface hy- drogen atoms. Lastly, the absence of any alkyl buildup on the surface during the reaction indicates that the first step must be rate limiting, in the same way as in organometallic compounds. The faster rate of the alkyl-hydrogen reductive elimination step has also been demonstrated by temperature-programmed desorption experiments (Figure 14).
The order in which the hydrogen and the ethylene are adsorbed on the surface in vacuum studies also changes the kinetics of the hydrogenation reaction!" This is because there is a geometrical constraint on the way the olefin and the hydrogen atoms need to 2674 Chemical Reviews, 1995, Vol. 95, No. 8 Zaera Ru(OOO), Pd(100) and Pd(111),706,707 and Pt(lll).708 The unequivocal identification of a surface interme- diate could not be made in any of those studies, but self-hydrogenation to ethylene was observed in tem- perature-programmed desorption experiments on platinum and palladium. Hydrogen coadsorption facilitates the production of a small amount of ethylene on Ru(0001) around 175 K, presumably by first forming a vinyl intermediate around 150
K. Also,
only CzHzDz desorbs from deuterium-predosed Ru(0001) surfaces, indicating that no H-D scram- bling occurs in that system, but all D2-, D3-, and D4- ethylenes are produced on Pd(lll), supposedly by H-D exchange via a vinylidene intermediate.707 The studies on palladium also highlighted the structure sensitivity of the hydrogenation reaction: ethylene formation occurs around 300 K on Pd(100), around 320 K on Pd(lll),and not at all on Pd(ll0). A small amount of ethane is also produced from acetylene on Pt(ll1).
To the best of our knowledge no hydrogenation reactions have been reported for either dienes or arenes on transition metal surfaces. One example is available in the literature for the insertion of allyl groups into M-H bonds, that of the n-allylic C6H9 species that results from cyclohexene decomposition on Pt(ll1); that species incorporates a deuterium atom from the surface and desorbs as the olefin if bismuth is dosed after the first dehydrogenation step.304
C. C-C Bond Activation
Oxidative addition steps on metal centers like those discussed above for carbon-hydrogen bonds can in principle take place with carbon-carbon single bonds as well. Cyclopropane and a few other strained compounds do indeed react this way,251,256,709-712 but in compounds with unstrained C-C bonds such cleavage is rare because the overall process is highly endothermic.llg Recent observations have lead to the suggestion that dehydrogenation steps on the coor- dinated hydrocarbon moiety are required to assist subsequent C-C oxidative additions.252 There are nevertheless some examples where this is not the case. For instance, a methyl group can be abstracted from a 1,l-dimethyl cyclopentadiene iridium com- l e x ,  l and some aliphatic coordinated ligands can be converted to olefins via alkyl elimination at the ,6
psition.'l-l P-Alkyl elimination steps are usually exothermic,but are not common because they compete unfavor- ably with P-hydride elimination. That obstacle can be overcome by blocking the / 3 position (by using ligands without P hydrogens), or by choosing systems where olefin removal from the complex is favored (a condition needed to drive the equilibrium in the desired direction). P-Alkyl eliminations are well known for aluminum complexes in connection with Ziegler-Natta p r o c e s  e s ,    ,and are feasible in some organolanthanides as well.714,715 Exo-Ring open- ing, a related reaction, occurs in both alkyl-scan- dium716 and platinum complexes.717 Metallacycles, on the other hand, quite often decompose via C-C bond breaking steps, via the equivalent of a P-carbene elimination step. The most common reaction of metallacyclobutanes in particular is their reversible fragmentation to the olefin- carbene isomer.720 Metallacycles are often unstable and exist only as transient short-lived intermediates in olefin metathesis reactions,721 but have been isolated in a few cases.722 Olefins can also form reversibly from metallayclopentanes.Theoretical calculations suggest that the transition state for metathesis requires the planes of the olefin and the carbene to be parallel to each other,724 and some indirect experimental evidence is available to support this idea: most carbene-olefin complexes in which the carbene is perpendicular to the C-C bond are quite stable.436x725 A few exceptions to this rule have been reported recently.726 Carbon-carbon oxidative addition of double and,more commonly, triple bonds in unsaturated hydro- carbons coordinated to metal clusters are possible.For example, the activation of the carbon-carbon double bond in ethylene yields bridging methylenes in many bimetallic complexes.727 Reported cases for the activation of triple bonds include the reaction between the hexanuclear OsS(C0)ls cluster and di- phenyl acetylene to form OSS(CO)U-CP)U-CP the thermal conversion of the tetranuclear alkyne complex OSWC(H)(,M-RCCR)(CO)IO to the bis(a1- kylidyne) OSWC(H)@-CR)@-CR)(CO) and the addition of alkynes to other trimetallic c l  s t e r s .    , Presumably, the alkyne needs to rotate during this reaction from its initial parallel coordination mode to a perpendicular configuration in order to migrate to the edge of the cluster, which is the initial step toward the C-C bond activation.730 A few examples have also been reported for this reaction in complexes with only two metal cen- In heterogeneous systems carbon-carbon bond scission steps are the basis for well-established catalytic processes such as hydrocarbon hydrogenoly- sis, but nevertheless, little is known about the mechanism of this reaction. The activation of al- kanes and other saturated and unsaturated com- pounds seems to almost always be initiated by the breaking of C-H bonds, as only highly dehydroge- nated species seem prone to C-C cleavage. Perhaps the cleanest and most interesting example of a C-C bond-breaking reaction in surface science is the decomposition of neopentyl groups to isobutene on Ni(100) surfaces (Figure That reaction was shown to have an activation energy barrier on the order of 22 kcaymol, much higher than that for P-hydride elimination steps on the same surface. The mechanism by which the olefin is formed has not yet been determined, but, given that the decomposition of a,a-dideuterioneopentyl groups only yields normal isobutene (without any deuterium substitutions), a direct P-methyl elimination step can be d i  c a r d e d .    , A P-methyl elimination step was also proposed for the formation of propylene from isobutyl moieties on aluminum but no direct proof was pro- vided to support that hypothesis. A third example of C-C bond scission reactions on surfaces is the conversion of a C4H4 cyclic moiety to vinylidene on Pd(111),266 a reaction that takes place around 250 K,ters.732,733 Chemistry of Hydrocarbon Moieties most likely via an initial ring-opening step to form acetylene.Although to the best of our knowledge there are no other reported cases for isolated carbon-carbon bond-scission steps, those reactions take place in almost all hydrocarbodtransition metal surface sys- tems at high temperatures. Decomposition reactions are usually molecule or functional group specific below 400 K, but most hydrocarbon moieties seem to decompose to the same fragments above 500 K.Unfortunately, high-temperature activation of ad- sorbed carbonaceous moieties often produces a mix- ture of species on the surface, making the charac- terization of those species quite difficult. Vibrational and temperature-programmed desorption studies have narrowed down the possible candidates to CH, CzH, and/or partially hydrogenated polymeric carbon rings and chains. As a case in point, heating ethyl- ene, acetylene, or benzene on r  t h e n i u m , ' rhod- ium,144,147 p a l l a d i  m ,or platinum144 surfaces above 500 K all produce a mixed layer of CH and CCH fragments. The formation of methyli- dyne (CH) clearly requires the breaking of at least one C-C bond, but the available data indicate that this only occurs after extensive dehydrogenation if at Chemical Reviews, 1995, Vol. 95, No. 8 2675
D. C-C Bond Formation
1. Reductive Elimination of Alkyls
Carbon-carbon bond-formation steps are the re- verse of C-C activation reactions, and usually occur by one of two paths, either by reductive elimination (or C-C coupling, the reverse of the oxidative addi- tion step discussed before),or by migratory insertion.
Thermodynamically C-C coupling is favored over C-H and H-H elimination reactions, but kinetically the need for the reorientation of the two highly directional carbon-sp3 hybrid orbitals often makes those reactions slow.628 A well-known example of a C-C coupling is the alkane formation from dialkyl mono-metallic a reaction that requires the two outgoing ligands to be oriented cis to each other.616 The elimination rate is enhanced both by a large positive charge at the metal center618s619 and by prior coordination of another ligand.626 Appar- ently this enhancement is due not only to the formal two-electron reduction of the metal center induced by the elimination, but also to geometrical effects related to the spatial distribution of the d orbitals in the metal: elimination from three- and five-coordi- nated complexes is much easier than from planar four-coordinated ones.735 This also explains the dif- ferences in the way reductive elimination reactions take place in different metals. For example, four- coordinated Ni(PR&R2 compounds lose a R-R al- kane directly, but the equivalent Pd(I1) and Au(II1) complexes normally release one of the phosphine ligands first,616,621 and Pt(I1) complexes usually react only after the previous oxidative addition of an alkyl halide.736 C-C coupling reactions are believed to be elemen- tary and to take place intramolecularly, at least in monometallic complexes.616 The elimination of two organic moieties coordinated to different metal cen- ters within the same compound is rare, and in the case of bimetallic complex is in fact symmetry forbid- den.635 A great deal of indirect evidence also suggests that the formation of the C-C bond proceeds with retention of stereohemistry,and that the stability of the product often enhances the reaction rate. This is why both  i n y l - a l k y l and v i n y l -  i n y l elimi- nations, which yield coordinated olefins, are faster than alkyl-alkyl couplings. Octanuclear organocop- per clusters produce biaryls via the Ullmann coupling r e a  t i o n ,    ,while hexanuclear alkyl-aryl mixed complexes yield the alkyl-benzene cross-coupling product instead.742 The formation of a o alkane- metal complex prior to the release of the free hydro- carbon molecule has also been suggested in some alkyl - alkyl elimination reactions. 743 Reductive eliminations often compete with dispro- portionation reactions. Late transition metals in general favor C-C coupling over ,&hydride or C-H reductive elimination steps. Alkyl-silver complexes yield dialkyl compounds almost exclusively. Iron compounds, on the other hand, usually produce alkane/alkene mixtures, and copper, gold, nickel,rhodium, platinum, and palladium compounds all produce varying mixtures of alkanes, alkenes, and dialkanes depending on the nature of the other ligand., The reductive elimination of alkyl groups on sur- faces is known on late transition metals only (Figure 15). For example, the thermal activation of methyl,ethyl, n-propyl, and isopropyl on Ag(ll1) surfaces yields ethane, butane, n-hexane, and 2,3-dimethyl butane respectively,all with 100% selectivity.66-68 On palladium,637 copper,61,62J91,639 and gold71,521,744 surface coupling reactions compete with hydride elimination steps, especially at low alkyl  coverage., The rate of C-C coupling also seems to be directly related to the strength of the metal-carbon bond: the w.eaker the bond is, the faster the Methyl groups couple with high efficiency on Au(100) or Au(ll1) surfaces unless sites are blocked by other ligands,744 but other alkyl groups disproportionate to a large extent, which means that the activity for C-C coupling on gold must be somewhere between that for the a- and /3-hydride elimination steps. The activation energies for both reactions are quite similar on copper, on the order of 20 kcaymol,suggesting that the selectivity toward reductive elimination reactions may at least in part be deter- mined by the ability of the metal to activate dehy- drogenation reactions.63 Also, coupling reactions are bimolecular, and therefore have kinetics that may depend strongly on the concentrations of the surface reactants. Finally, the rates for the coupling of CH2 and CH3 moieties is faster on Cu(100) than on Cu- (110), indicating that the structure of the surface plays an important role in determining the kinetics of these reactions as well (Figure 15). It is conceiv- able that the actual C-C surface recombination step is fast and that the rate for alkyl dimerization is controlled by the diffusion of the reactants on the surface.In terms of relative rates for C-H vs C-C bond- forming reactions, it was found that coadsorption of hydrogen with phenyl groups on Cu(ll1) completely 2676 Chemical Reviews. 1595, Vol. 95, No. 8 C-C Alkyl Coupling Ethane TPD from CHJI Zaera interesting, because it proves that the product selec- tivity is controlled by the coordination number and/ or the geometry of the molecule. For example, while a 14-electron. three-coordinate complex undergoes ,!%hydride elimination to butene, a 16-electron, four- coordinated compound decomposes via reductive elimination to cyclobutane, and an lSelectron, five- coordinated complex reacts by C-C bond scission to yield Multiply coordinated ligands can C-C couple as well. Some Fischer carbenes, for instance, can re- ductively eliminate to yield olefins,'95 and dialkyli- dyne complexes can produce acetylenes, both in m o n o m e t a l l i     . and in c l u  t e r '   - ' compounds.In n ligands, diolefin complexes can oxidative couple to metallacyclopentane, most likely via the formation of a metallacyclopropane and di- acetylene compounds produce the corresponding un- saturated metallacycle (metallol) complex.754 In the homogeneous conversion of acetylenes to benzenes,which is commonly catalyzed by metal complees,1,blocking of the side reactions and use of bulky substituents allows for the isolation of CZ and C 4
intermediate.
Decomposition of metallacycles leads to the elimi- nation of cyclic hydrocarbons on silveF and nickel2" surfaces, but not on aluminum2" or palladium?* On Ag(lll), cyclopropane is produced from Cl(CH2bI decomposition (presumably via the formation of a metallacyclobutane).66 Vinyl and phenyl groups also reductively eliminate on Ag(ll1) to butadiene and biphenyl, respectively,'" and 1,5-hexadiene forms by coupling of allyl groups on Ag(l10)?45 Perhaps more interesting, butadiene is produced with 100% ef- ficiency from vinyl on CU(OO),' even though hy- dride eliminations seem to dominate on other hydro- carbon-copper systems. Cycloalkenes from cyclo- propene to cyclohexene are produced on Ni(100) by thermal decomposition of the corresponding 1,n- diiodoalkane compounds.269 Methylene moieties couple very efficiently on silveF and c  p p e P @ surfaces, but not at all on either nicke1112 or plati- numlg3 substrates. Finally, CH groups dimerize to acetylene above 250 K on Ni(lll).79 Perhaps the most interesting C-C coupling reac- tion reported so far on surfaces is the trimerization of acetylene on Pd(111).55''0775''5* A series of elegant isotope-labeling, structural, and reactivity studies have shown that this reaction takes place via an initial oxidative coupling of two acetylene mol- ecules to form a Pd-C4H4 metallocycle followed by the coupling of such an intermediate with a third acetylene to benzene. Several pieces of evidence support this mechanism: (1)
CC
products desorb from palladium surfaces exposed to acetylene molecular beam;5,'59 (2) several C4 molecules, mostly butene,are also produced by thermal activation of acetylene when coadsorbed with hydrogen;760 (3) thermal acti- vation of acetylene coadsorbed with either sulfur761 or oxygen76z yields thiophene or furan, respectively;(4) thermal activation of mixtures of normal and fully deuterated acetylenes yields benzene molecules with even number of deuterium atoms exclsively;' and (5) the reaction between the palladium C 4 intermedi- ate prepared by decomposition of 3,4-cis-dichlorocy- 100 200 300 400 500 600 Temperature I K Figure
15. Ethane temperature-programmed desorption
(TPD)
spectra from methyl iodide adsorbed on Cu(l10),B2
C(100),9
Cu(lll),63 A  ( l l l ) :and Ag(lll),B' showing the relative ease with which C-C alkyl coupling reactions occur on late transition metal surfaces.Silver is an extreme case where the coupling not only occurs at lower temper- atures than on any other metal, but where it also takes place with 100% efficiency. Some ethane also forms on copper and gold surfaces, but only in competition with the produets of a-hydride and aky-hydrogen reductive elimi- nation reactions. This figure also shows how the maxima for ethane formation shifts from around 440 K on Cu(100) to 445 and 450 K on Cu(ll0) and Cu(lll), respectively.Although these temperatures depend somewhat on the initial methyl surface coverage, there is a clear difference in reaction rate on surfaces with different crystallographic orientations. This may be assoeiated with the ease with which alkyl groups diffise across surfaces inhibits biphenyl formation at the expense of benzene p r o d  c t i o n ; '    ' C-H reductive eliminations steps are clearly favored in that case. On the other hand,phenyl groups act as efficient traps for alkyl radical intermediates: all methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, and neopentyl groups couple with phenyl moieties below 160 K to yield the corresponding alkyl benzene,indicating that alkyl-aryl coupling is favored over alkyl-alkyl frmation.' Other metals may promote coupling as well. For instance, the thermal activa- tion of methyl moieties yields ethylidyne moieties on Pt(111)747 and Ru(OOO1P surfaces at high coverages.Although it is not yet clear what the mechanism for that reaction is, it most likely starts by an initial a-H elimination on methyl groups to produce methyli- dyne. No other alkyl coupling examples have been reported under vacuum to date.33 2 .Other Eliminations Reductive elimination from metallacycles usually yields cyclic compounds. A rhenium cyclopentane complex, for instance, undergoes sequential ring contraction and reductive elimination steps to pro- duce methyl cyclpropane?A better example is that of a nickel cyclopentane complex, which under- goes a reductive elimination step directly to yield cyclobutane?60 This latter system is particularly Chemistry of Hydrocarbon Moieties clobutene and acetylene produces benzene.7Bs Acety- lene trimerization has also been observed on nickel- ?@ copper-,?6s and tin-modified platinum766 surfaces,but no mechanistic details were provided in the reports of those cases.Chemical Reviews, 1995, Vol. 95, No. 8 2677
3. Mgratoty Insertion
The other common type of C-C bond-formation reaction is the migratory insertion of carbenes or olefins into metal-carbon bonds. Carbene insertion in organometallic complexes has been recognized only recently, and is not yet well understood. Several examples have been reported for what looks like an alkyl-carbene insertion, but in most cases the pre- sumed alkyl-carbene complex was generated in situ (usually from a dialkyl compound), and only the insertion product was identified.'67-7m This reaction can in principle repeat itself in a catalytic cycle to produce polymers, but this seems to be common only in the heterogeneous systems related to the Fischer- Tropsch proess."-' The insertion of coordinated alkenes into metal-alkyl bonds is also possible, and is in fact pivotal in the Heck reaction, where pal- ladium is complexed sequentially with an alkyl (R) group and an olefin (R"2C=CR'H) to produce a palladium hydride compound and the enlarged al- kene (R"2C=CR'R),?73 in the Cramer mechanism for olefin dimerization,?" and in the Cossee mechanism for Ziegler-Natta  polymerization.?-"' All these reactions occur via syn additions with retention of onfiguration,? but the regiochemistry depends on the steric andlor electronic details of the complex, so that the new alkyl ligand can be formed by bonding of the old alkyl group to either the most (Markovni- kov) or the least (anti-Markovnikov) crowded carbon atom in the olefin .?75,779 Alkyl-olefin insertions are thermodynamically more favorable than hydrido- ole% insertions,but kinetic factors usually shift the selectivity toward the latter  reaction.',' A l k
can also be inserted into metal-alkyl bonds mth anti-Markovnikov regiospecificity via a cis addition step,782,783 in this case to yield metal-vinyl deriva- t i v e
,
and thanks to the high stability of the resulting A complex, the insertion of conjugated dienes and other extended olefinic systems is even more faile.6 Olefin insertion into metal-carbene bonds produces metallacyclobutane complexes; this reaction is not only common, but often reversible, and believed to be the basis for metathesis p r o c e  s e s . ?   .
Also possible, although less common, is the insertion of alkynes into metal-carbenes or metal-p-alkyl- idenes; these reactions yield unsaturated cyclic com- p l e  e s  * or allylic  ligand,?. respectively. The latter two processes could in fact be the same, and the difference could just be due to a subsequent rearrangement of the p r o d  c t . '   * The only clear example of a migratory insertion reaction on metal surfaces is that of methylene into copper-alkyl bonds on copper single crystals ( F i v 1 6 ) .For instance, the thermal activation of mixtures of methyl and methylene groups coadsorbed on CdllO) yields significant amounts of ethylene, which is produced by B-hydride elimination from the ethyl moieties resulting from carbene insertion into the Cu-CH3 bond.62 On Cu(100) the activation of CH2 Methylene Migratory Insertion CHzIz + CD11Cu1001 dppropylene
TPD
h a u !
44 46
I0
200 300 4 0 5 0 1
Temperature
I K
F
i w 1 6 .
Propene temperature-programmed desorption (TF'D) spectra from a Cu(100) surface dosed with a mixture of diiodo methane and perdeuteriomethyl iodide. This figure illustrates the ease with which methylene migratory insertion reactions occur on copper surfaces. The relative peak intensities for the 4 4 ,
45, and 46 amu traces cor- respond to those of 3,3,3-trideuterioprop-l-ene,indicating that the trideuterio olefin is the major Ca product in this case.'g2 The proposed mechanism for this reaction, shown schematically at the top of this figure, consists of two sequential methylene migratory insertions into an alkyl- metal bond (a methyl first and an ethyl in the second step) followed by the p-hydride elimination from the resulting trideuteriopropyl species. + CD3 mixtures produces both Dpethylene and D3- propylene, the latter by two consecutive insertion steps (Figure 1 6 ) ,
and coadsorbed CH2 + CzD5 mixtures yield Dd-prpylene.' Olefin metathesis has been reported on both metal oxides and molyb- denum metallic foils, but no mechanistic details are available for those cases.?91 Finally, polymerization of hydrocarbon moieties takes place on several metal surfaces at high temperatures. Hydrocarbon decom- position on P t ( l l 1 )
substrates, for instance, ulti- mately yields graphitic l a y e r  , 2   J but the mecha- nism for that reaction is far from understood.
E. Isomerization
Apart f" hydrogenation-dehydrogenation steps,coordinated hydrocarbon moieties can also undergo isomerization reactions. One of the most common pathways for such tautomerism is via the shift of a hydrogen atom from one carbon to the next.793Jg4 In particular, the interconversion of coordinated acety- lene into vinylidene moieties within organometallic complexes has received significant attention over the past decade.644-647795-803 Several calculations indi- cate that metal-coordinated vinylidene ligands may be more stable than their acetylene counterparts, in spite of the fact that the opposite is true for the free gas-phase m o i e t i e  . ?   .
The relative stability of these ligands is in fact controlled by several factors,including the d electron count in the metal center,644 which is why their interconversion can indeed occur in both directions.
The mechanism for the vinylidene-acetylene isomerization reaction is far from resolved. Two 2678 Chemical Reviews, 1995, Vol. 95, No. 8 Zaera routes have been extensively discussed in the litera- ture, the direct hydrogen slippage from one carbon to the next,797 and the two-step conversion via an alkynyl intermediate.232 The latter did gain some support after the isolation of several alkynyl(hydrid0) complexes,645-647,7957g6 but the prohibitively large barrier calculated for such a process makes the conversion of this hydrido-acetylide into vinylidene unlikely.801 In the end, both mechanisms may be operational depending on the characteristics of the system, since 18-electron filled-shell acetylene com- plexes cannot undergo the C-H oxidative addition step necessary to make the hydrido intermediate anyway. There has also been some discussion on the effect of the metal cluster size on the viability of the acetylene-vinylidene conversion. Such a transfor- mation was calculated to be unlikely for binuclear complexes,797 but has nevertheless been observed experimentally in a few The isomer- ization of nonterminal alkyne complexes to allyl compounds has been reported as well.800 The conversion of both alkenes into alkyli- denes643,804-806 and alkenyls into alkylidynes are also possible.557,643806-810 As in the case of the alkyne- vinylidene isomerization, the alkenyl-alkylidyne tautomerism is believed to often follow a two-step mechanism, since the reaction is in many instances driven by the addition of protons to the solution.806,808 On the other hand, isotope labeling experiments provided strong evidence for a direct 1,2 hydrogen shift within the hydrocarbon moiety in a triosmium complex, without the direct participation of any of the metal atoms.810 Also, the rearrangement of alkylidynes to alkenyl complexes is accelerated by a higher degree of alkyl substitution at the p carbon of the hydrocarbon ligand,557 and the kinetic product from the conversion of metal complexes with 1,2- disubstituted alkenes are the alkylidyne compounds.809 Theoretical calculations on the latter suggest a transition state with a bridging hydrogen and a positive charge localized at the / 3 position.811 There have not been many reported instances of simple isomerization reactions on surfaces. One of the earliest examples of this was the intramolecular rearrangement of chemisorbed acetylene to vi- nylidene that occurs on Pd(ll1) between 220 and 270
K139,204,241,595
and on supported platinum around room temperature.242 On Pt(lll),the thermal decomposi- tion of vinyl moieties yields acetylene and vinylidene moieties simultaneously, but there is no evidence for the interconversion of one species into the other.131 The most studied case involving hydrogen tautom- erism in surface chemistry is by far the conversion of ethylene to e t h  l i d y n e ;this is a complex reaction and will be discussed in detail in the next section.
Acetylene can also isomerize to ethylidyne if hydro- gen is coadsorbed on the surface,204,210,705 in the case of supported platinum via the formation of vi- n  l i d e n e .    .
Other types of isomerizations, such as C-C double- or triple-bond migration, cis-trans isomerization in olefins, and shifts of methyl and other carbon-containing fragments are all known in organometallic  y  t e m  ,    ,    ,but have, to the best of our knowledge, never been observed in surface science studies.
Other more complex isomerization reactions have also been reported. Coordinated cyclic compounds,for instance, sometimes undergo ring-expansion or ring-contraction reactions. A cycloheptatrienyl-cr- (C0)s cation, for instance, reacts with cyclopentadi- enyl ions to yield the ring-contracted chromium- benzene neutral c o m p l e  .    , Labeling experiments proved that the arene six-membered ligand in that case is formed from the tropylium ring rather than from the cyclopentadienyl ring.597 Adsorbed cyclo- heptatriene was also shown to yield benzene on a carbon-passivated W(100) surface.815 In another example, 1,3,5,7-tetramethylcyclooctatetraene reacts spontaneously when coordinated to a Fe(C0)3 com- plex to produce the corresponding [4.2.Olbicyclic omp pound,, and a similar ring contraction has been recently reported on Pt(ll1) surfaces.818 Fi- nally, the conversion of 1-methylcyclopentene to ben- zene has been observed on Ni(100).163
F. Multiple-Step Reactions
1. Dehydrogenation
In addition to the studies of elementary steps discussed in the previous sections, some research has been carried out on more complex surface reactions.
Reactions involving multiple hydrogenation-dehy- drogenation, hydrogen shift, and H-D exchange steps have received special attention in recent years.
The conversion of alkenes to alkylidynes mentioned in the previous section falls in this category. This reaction, which takes place on almost all late transi- tion metal surfaces, is believed to follow a multistep mechanism that includes a 1,2 hydrogen-shift step.
Unfortunately, it has not yet been possible to deter- mine the actual sequence of elementary steps that take place in that reaction. TPD, N E W S ,
SSIMS,
and RAIRS experiments all have proven that ethyli- dyne formation follows first-order kinetics,585,819-824 but recent studies have pointed to two kinetic re- gimes for the decomposition of ethylene, a slow one at saturation, and a faster one at lower coverages.825 This means that the rate of ethylene disappearance diverges from that of ethylidyne formation in the low coverage regime, suggesting that another species accumulates on the surface. Nevertheless, no inter- mediates have been isolated for this reaction to date.
Also, recent studies have indicated that the mecha- nism of this reaction is more complicated than initially thought. For example, a recent STM study has shown that the kinetics for the conversion of ethylene to ethylidyne on Pt(ll1) may depend on the availability of the appropriate ensemble of metal atoms, since the reaction appears to take place preferentially on the boundaries between the islands formed by ethylene and ethylidyne.216 Infrared and laser-induced desorption experiments with labeled ethylene and deuterium have shown that ethylene exchanges its hydrogen atoms simultaneously during the formation of ethylidyne as we11.559,686 Several pathways have been proposed in the lit- erature for the conversion of ethylene to ethylidyne tries to explain this reaction must include at least two steps in order to account for the changes that (Figure 17).144,205,287,518.585,826-828 Any mechanism that Chemisby of H y d m h n Moieties
L
d e  , RedLmM
1.2.H an,"
c y
* o.ld*l#us amm" Figure 17. Proposed mechanisms for the conversion of adsorbed ethylene into ethylidyne species on transition metal surfaces.6a6 Three intermediates have been suggested for this reaction, namely, ethyl, ethylidene, and vinyl species. The lack of a significant buildup of any species other than ethylene and ethylidyne during ethylidyne formation argues for a mechanism with an initial slow step or, more likely, for a fast equilibrium between ethylene and a second species. Ethylidyne and ethylene are both much more stable than any of the other proposed species, so if such an equilibrium were to be established, the second moiety would have to be present in small concentrations on the surface at all times during the ethylene conversion.
In addition, given that the rate for ethylidyne formation is independent of the surface coverage of coadsorbed hydrogen,"86 the most likely mechanism for ethylidyne formation is that involving ethylidene.
Note, however, that an equilibrium between ethylene and ethyl must also exist on the surface, since such interconversion is believed to be responsible for the extensive ethylene H-D exchange that takes place concurrently. take place within the surface moieties, namely, (1) a removal of a hydrogen atom (the breaking of a C-H bond), and (2) a transfer of a second hydrogen from one carbon to the other. Two straightforward se- quences can be proposed for this, one where the hydrogen transfer is followed by the hydrogen re- moval, in which case an ethylidene (CHCH3) inter- mediate is formed, and a second one where the hydrogen removal occurs first, and a vinyl-like (CH-CH2) intermediate is involved instead. Prece- dents for the first step of both schemes exist in the organometallic l i t e r a t  r e , 6   . but results from ki- netic experiments with trideuterioethylene (CHD- CDz) on Pt(ll1) ruled out the simple two-step ir- reversible sequence via an ethylidene intermediate,% and studies on the surface chemistry of vinyl iodide argue against the idea of a pathway involving vinyl intermediates as well.i31 A third proposal is that ethyl groups may coexist in small concentrations on the surface throughout the course of the reac- perhaps in equilibrium with the adsorbed ethylene. This equilibrium would not only explain the ease with which ethylene exchanges its hydrogen atoms, but could also account for the formation of ethylidyne via a short-lived ethylidene intermediate.
On the other hand, recent RAIRS experiments have shown that the rate of ethylidyne formation is not affected by the presence of coadsorbed hydrogen on the surface.686 At the present time, the best mech- anism appears to be one involving a direct ethylene- ethylidene fast interconversion followed by the a- elimination of ethylidene to ethylidyne, but more work is needed to resolve this issue.
Chemical Reviews, 1995, Vci. 95, No. 8 2679 Another good example of the type of reactions that most likely involve multiple steps is the dehydroge- nation of alkenes to alkynes,the best example being the dehydrogenation of ethylene to acetylene on Ni(lll).289,424,830-"2 According to secondary ion mass spectrometric studies, the acetylene formation begins around 165 K and is over by about 215 K, at which point all the surface ethylene has been consumed and the resulting acetylene starts to dehydrogenate to other s p e  i e s .    , Recent structural experiments suggest that the two hydrogen atoms could be lost simultaneously from the ethylene molecule in a concerted step, either via cis elimination with trans- lation of the molecule to a new adsorption site, or by trans elimination and rotation around the symmetry axis of the molecule along the surface This is consistent with the fact that no intermediates have been identified for this reaction. It is interesting to note that the mechanism of dehydrogenation reac- tions depends on the structure of the surface (at least under vacuum), since the thermal activation of eth- ylene on Ni(100) and Ni(ll0) crystals yields vinyl and acetylide species, r e s p e c t i  e l y .
This structure sensitivity may be related to the need for a reason- ably large ensemble of metal atoms in order for the reaction to occur: the adsorption of ethylene and acetylene involves a minimum of four and two surface nickel atoms, respetively,3J and each extra hy- drogen requires one hollow site with another three Ni atoms. In the case of the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane en platinum, the blocking of surface sites by gold deposition increases the selectivity for cyclo- hexene over benzene production, presumably because a larger site is required to accommodate the extra hydrogen atoms from benzene formation (Figure 18).833 Since such large ensembles are difficult to emulate with organometallic clusters, it may be difficult to reproduce these surface reactions in the homogeneous phase. 2 .
Hydrogenation The most widely studied example of a hydrogena- tion reaction is the conversion of ethylene to ethane.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis, what mechanisms (such as Mars van Krevelen and H-abstraction) are involved in these processes, and how are these principles applied in industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, using the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride as a specific example?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X20211200

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.90%

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 