<quotes>
[1] "The levels of outstanding credit card holdings and loans in Asia have not always converged smoothly to levels seen in mature markets. Rather, in this decade, Asia has witnessed cycles of marked credit card lending booms and busts in a number of its markets."
[2] "Six factors lay behind the relaxation of lending standards and excessive growth in credit card lending. First, weaker corporate loan demand, ample liquidity in the banking systems and lower interest rates in the wake of the Asian financial crisis put pressure on lenders to focus more on consumers."
[3] "In a matter of two weeks, the outstanding value of the ITC-managed funds fell by 15%. Most card companies found it almost impossible to roll over their maturing debts. Funding difficulties also forced issuers to slow or even cut their lending to cardholders, further pushing up delinquencies and hurting the confidence of bond investors."
[4] "An important question regarding the 2003 Korean credit card crisis concerns whether and to what extent levels of credit card cash advances affect asset quality of card lending portfolios for a number of reasons."
[5] "First, the episodes highlight the importance of placing greater emphasis on detecting early warning signs before imbalances build up excessively for too long."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The levels of outstanding credit card holdings and loans in Asia have not always smoothly matched mature markets' levels. Instead, Asia has experienced credit card lending booms and busts in various markets during this decade.
2. The six factors contributing to the easing of lending standards and excessive credit card lending growth include weaker corporate loan demand, abundant liquidity in banking systems, and lowered interest rates post-Asian financial crisis, which pressured lenders to prioritize consumer lending.
3. In response to the crisis, the value of funds managed by investment trust companies (ITCs) decreased by 15% within two weeks. Card companies struggled to refinance maturing debts, leading to reduced lending and increased delinquencies.
4. A critical inquiry about the 2003 Korean credit card crisis is whether and how much credit card cash advances influence the quality of card lending portfolios, considering various factors.
5. The lessons from the episodes underscore the necessity of placing greater emphasis on recognizing early warning signs before significant imbalances develop over time.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 亚洲的信用卡持有量和贷款水平在过去并没有平滑地达到成熟市场的水平。相反，在过去十年中，亚洲经历了多个市场的信用卡借贷繁荣和崩溃周期。
2. 造成放贷标准放松和信用卡借贷过度增长的六个因素包括：企业贷款需求较弱、银行系统流动性充足以及亚洲金融危机后利率降低，这些压力促使放贷者更多地关注消费者市场。
3. 危机发生时，投资信托公司（ITC）管理的资金价值在两周内下降了15%。信用卡公司难以偿还即将到期的债务，导致放贷减少并加剧了违约情况。
4. 对2003年韩国信用卡危机的一个关键问题是，信用卡现金借款的水平如何影响信用卡贷款组合的质量，考虑到各种因素。
5. 这些事件的教训强调了在重大失衡发展之前高度重视早期预警信号的重要性。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
