<quotes>
[1] "Jay Keller - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[2] "Gregory J. Kubas - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[3] "Harold H. Kung - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[4] "James E. Lyons - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[5] "Leo E. Manzer - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[6] "Tobin J. Marks - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[7] "Keiji Morokuma - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[8] "Kenneth M. Nicholas - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[9] "Roy Periana - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[10] "Lawrence Que - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[11] "Jens Rostrup-Nielson - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[12] "Wolfgang M. H. Sachtler - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[13] "B. Ray Stults - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[14] "William Tumas - National Institute of Materials and Chemical Research, Dipartimento di Chimica Universita, Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California."
[15] "Tobin J. Marks is Vladimir N. Ipatieff Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Materials Science and Engineering at Northwestern UniversityEvanston. He received his B.S. degree in Chemistry from the University of Maryland in 1966 and his Ph.D. degree in Inorganic Chemistry from M.I.T. in 1970 under the direction of Professor F. A. Cotton."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The document lists the affiliations of several researchers, including their positions at various institutions such as universities and research centers. Tobin J. Marks is mentioned as a professor at Northwestern University, Evanston, specializing in Chemistry and Materials Science and Engineering. He has a background in Inorganic Chemistry from MIT, having completed his PhD there in 1970 under the guidance of Professor F. A. Cotton.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
文档列出了多位研究人员的职务，包括他们在不同机构的职位，如大学和研究机构。托宾·J·马克斯被提到是西北大学埃文斯顿分校的化学教授和材料科学与工程教授。他拥有麻省理工学院的无机化学博士学位，指导老师是F.A.库顿教授，于1966年从马里兰大学获得化学学士学位。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
