<quotes>

[1] "Despite the excellent performance of Pt and CrOx catalysts in paraffin dehydrogenation, a number of issues including catalyst poisoning, the high cost of Pt, and environmental concerns associated with the use of Cr have spurred the search for alternatives."
[2] "The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings."
[3] "Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition. When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active."
[4] "V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C."
[5] "In several studies, CO2 is added to the feed as a mild oxidant to increase alkene yields."
[6] "Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction."
[7] "Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion."
[8] "When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites. This increases the acidity of the support, which in turn increases coke formation and lowers selectivity."
[9] "If these basic sites are absent, as in the case of SiO2, no beneficial effects of CO2 are observed."
[10] "Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity."
[11] "Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary causes of metal oxide catalyst deactivation in oxidative dehydrogenation processes, focusing on Cr-based and VOx catalysts, include catalyst poisoning, high cost of Pt, environmental concerns associated with the use of Cr, strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites, coke deposition, sintering of vanadium oxide species, and formation of mixed oxides such as AlVO4. Reoxidation with air, CO2, or O2 can be used to regenerate the catalysts. Reoxidation with air or O2 is effective but requires high temperatures, while CO2 addition can mitigate overoxidation in VOx-catalyzed reactions by facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion. However, the effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, and if the basic sites are too strong, CO2 can irreversibly adsorb and poison these sites, increasing the acidity of the support and increasing coke formation and lowering selectivity.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在氧化脱氢过程中，金属氧化物催化剂失活的主要原因，重点关注Cr基和VOx催化剂，包括催化剂中毒、Pt成本高、Cr使用环境问题、反应物在活性位点的强烈吸附、焦炭沉积、钒氧化物物种的烧结以及形成如AlVO4的混合氧化物。空气、CO2或O2的再氧化可以用于催化剂的再生。空气或O2的再氧化是有效的，但需要高温，而CO2的添加可以通过促进逆水煤气变换反应来缓解VOx催化反应中的过度氧化，该反应提高了烷烃转化的热力学限制。然而，CO2的效果取决于催化剂载体，如果碱性位点太强，CO2可以不可逆地吸附并毒害这些位点，增加载体的酸性，增加焦炭形成并降低选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
