<quotes>

[1] "Despite the excellent performance of Pt and CrOx catalysts in paraffin dehydrogenation, a number of issues including catalyst poisoning, the high cost of Pt, and environmental concerns associated with the use of Cr have spurred the search for alternatives. Vanadium oxides are known to be active for many hydrocarbon oxidation reactions, including dehydrogenation."
[2] "Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+."
[3] "Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition. When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active."
[4] "V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C."
[5] "In several studies, CO2 is added to the feed as a mild oxidant to increase alkene yields."
[6] "Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction."
[7] "CO2, being a much milder oxidant, can effectively consume H2 under dehydrogenation conditions, although it is not reactive enough to oxidize the hydrocarbons in the reaction mixture. However, much less heat is formed when CO2 is used, so the dehydrogenation reaction remains endothermic (H2 + CO2  H2O + CO (ΔH2980 = 41 kJ mol1)), as the RWGS does not provide enough heat to compensate for the highly endothermic dehydrogenation reaction. The cofeeding of CO2 may result in additional coke deposition, due to the increased CO and decreased H2 partial pressures brought about by the reverse watergas shift reaction."
[8] "On the other hand, coke may be gasified by CO2."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary causes of metal oxide catalyst deactivation, focusing on Cr-based and VOx catalysts, in oxidative dehydrogenation processes include catalyst poisoning, high cost of Pt, environmental concerns associated with the use of Cr, strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites, and coke deposition. The reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+, which can lead to deactivation. When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active. V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C. In several studies, CO2 is added to the feed as a mild oxidant to increase alkene yields. Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction. However, the cofeeding of CO2 may result in additional coke deposition, due to the increased CO and decreased H2 partial pressures brought about by the reverse watergas shift reaction. On the other hand, coke may be gasified by CO2.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属氧化物催化剂失活的主要原因，重点关注Cr基和VOx催化剂，在氧化脱氢过程中包括催化剂中毒、Pt成本高、Cr使用环境问题、反应物在活性位点的强烈吸附和焦炭沉积。催化剂被烃类进料还原导致V4+和V3+的形成，这可能导致失活。当通过催化剂的煅烧去除焦炭时，后者可能进一步失活，因为钒氧化物物种烧结并形成更大的V2O5晶体或如AlVO4的混合氧化物，两者都活性较低。V2O5晶体可以通过在600 C的氧气气氛下处理催化剂转化为活性多聚钒物种。在一些研究中，CO2被添加到进料中作为温和的氧化剂以增加烯烃产量。对CO2这种有益效果的不同原因已被提出，例如去除催化不希望的副反应的酸性位点、焦炭气化、过度还原的钒中心的氧化以及通过逆水煤气变换反应去除氢气。然而，CO2的共进料可能会导致额外的焦炭沉积，这是由于逆水煤气变换反应导致的CO增加和H2分压降低。另一方面，焦炭可以通过CO2气化。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
