I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


element not found
Chemical ReviewsVol 99/Issue 12Article Cite Share Jump to Expand ARTICLENovember 13, 1999 Niobium Compounds: Preparation, Characterization, and Application in Heterogeneous Catalysis Izabela NowakMaria Ziolek View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright  1999 American Chemical Society Subjects what are subjects Alcohols Catalysts Oxides Selectivity Transition Metals * In papers with more than one author, the asterisk indicates the name of the author to whom inquiries about the paper should be addressed.
I. Introduction
Niobium chemistry is not widely known despite increasing interest in the application of niobium compounds within many fields. Niobium materials are presently of great interest in heterogeneous catalysis where they are used as catalyst components or are added in small amounts to catalysts. The growing focus on niobium catalysts has led to international conferences devoted mainly or exclusively to the chemistry and catalysis of niobium within the past decade. These conferences in turn resulted in interesting review papers by Tanabe in 1990 1 and Tanabe and Okazaki in 1995 2 that primarily describe the catalytic application of niobium compounds.
This review presents a broader view of niobium chemistry including many aspects of the preparation, structure, and physicochemical and catalytic properties of niobium compounds as well as their applications. The characterization of the niobium compounds is very important to the discussion of their catalytic activity and for the prediction of both their activity and selectivity in various reactions. Thus, the characterization of niobium, niobium oxides, phosphates, molecular sieves containing niobium (zeolites, mesoporous materials of MCM-41 type, mesoporous oxides), and other niobium compounds such as oxynitrides, carbides, and sulfides is covered in this paper. In addition, one section is devoted to the application of these compounds in heterogeneous catalysis. This review is based mainly on the literature from 1990 to the present. About half of the included papers were published after the last review,2 while many others were not included in the previous review articles.1,2
II. Niobium: Existence, Physicochemical Properties, and Noncatalytic Application
Niobium (Nb), named after Niobe, a daughter of Tantalus, and also previously called columbium (Cb), after the American Columbia, was discovered in 1801 by Hatchett in an ore sent to England from Massachusetts. 3 The name niobium was officially adopted by IUPAC in 1950.The abundance of niobium in the Earth's crust is 20 ppm. Niobium does not occur in a free state and is usually found together with tantalum in the mineral, (Fe,Mn)M2O6 (M = Nb, Ta). This mineral is known as columbite or tantalite, depending on which metal predominates. 4 The principal niobium-producing countries are Brazil, which accounts for about 60% of its total production, Canada, Nigeria, and Zaire. Niobium is mononuclidic, and its only natural isotope is 93Nb.In 1955, Kouzmenko and Kazakova 5 described a mineral nenadkevichite from Lovazero (Russia) that has the composition (Nb,Ti)Si2O7·2H2O. Rocha et al. 6,7 prepared and characterized a series of synthetic microporous analogues of nenadkevichite from Saint-Hilaire, Quebec (Canada), with Ti/Nb molar ratios ranging from 0.8 to 17.1. Their studies suggested that the niobium and titanium are coordinated in distorted octahedra.Niobium has an atomic number of 41 and a relative atomic mass of 92.9064 and is a shiny, silvery metal with a typical metallic bcc structure. 8 When very pure, it is comparatively soft and ductile, but impurities make it harder. These properties are expected given niobium's position adjacent to the group IVA elements. Niobium is slightly less electropositive and smaller than its predecessor in the periodic table, while it is virtually identical in size to the heavier Ta as a consequence of the lanthanide contraction. The extra d electron appears to contribute to stronger metalmetal bonding in the bulk metals, leading to a higher melting point, boiling point, and enthalpy of atomization upon proceeding from the group IVA to the group VIA metals. 9 Niobium, which belongs to group VA, is in many ways similar to its predecessors in group IVA.4 It reacts with most nonmetals at high temperatures (fluorine reacts with niobium at RT, with chlorine and hydrogen at 473 K, and with nitrogen at 673 K), giving products that are frequently interstitial and nonstoichiometric, Niobium is resistant to most aggressive compounds and, thus, to corrosion. Due to its small thermal neutron capture cross-section and good resistance to several liquidmetal coolants such as sodium, lithium, etc., niobium is of major interest in nuclear technology.4 In addition, it is used as an additive in many alloys and also acts as a grain refiner in structural steels, where it improves thermal shock resistance, hot ductility, and tensile strength. It is resistant to acids, including nitrohydrochloric (aqua regia), HCl, H2SO4, HNO3, and H3PO4 and to many organic and inorganic compounds. Niobium is attacked by hot concentrated mineral acids, such as HF and HF/HNO3 mixtures, but is resistant to fused alkali.Although niobium exhibits all the formal oxidation states from +5 down to 1, its most stable state is +5. The +4 oxidation state is represented in halide compounds, while the +2 and +3 states appear in cluster compounds based on octahedral M6X12 units.4 Niobium and some of its alloys exhibit superconductivity, making them of interest for high-powered magnets. 10 Although its corrosion resistance is not as outstanding as that of tantalum, its lower price and greater availability make niobium attractive for less exact uses such as linings in chemical plants.4 Niobium is also widely used by the electronics industry in the manufacture of capacitors, where its oxide film is an efficient insulator, and as a filament or filament support.4 Niobium carbide together with the carbides of other refractory metals as tantalum, titanium, tungsten, and vanadium is used as a hard carbide in cutting tools. Niobium also has been used in advanced air frame systems in space programs.10 Niobium is a component of some phosphate optical glasses and has been incorporated into thermocouples to increase their stability at elevated temperatures. Several metaniobates have been used in piezoelectric ceramics and dielectrics.10 Its complete inertness to bodily fluids makes it an ideal component of bone implants and it also can be applied for internal suturing.4 Niobium-containing nonlinear optical materials, including LiNbO3, LiIO3, KH2PO4, are used as harmonic generators, frequency mixers, and parametric oscillators in the UV, visible, and near-IR regions. Another class of compounds [K(Ta,Nb)O3, BaNaNb5O15, etc.] exhibit the properties of so-called electrooptic materials in which electric fields may be used to control light beams. 11
III. Niobium Oxides
A. Nature and Physicochemical Properties of Various Niobium Oxides
Niobium(V) oxide is a white, air-stable, water-insoluble solid. It is much more stable and difficult to reduce than vanadium(V) oxide. 4,12 Nb2O5 is attacked by concentrated HF and dissolves in fused alkali. It may be described as amphoteric but is more characteristicly inert. Its structure is extremely complicated and displays extensive polymorphism, which will be described in the next section. 13 Nb2O5 is probably comprised of NbO6 octahedra connected by edges and corners. Since dissociation becomes discernible even at 1423 K, oxygen defects may be produced upon heating the Nb2O5 in a Bunsen flame. This results in a yellow form that reverts to Nb2O5 upon cooling in air.
High-temperature reduction (10731573 K) of Nb2O5 with hydrogen gives the bluish-black dioxide NbO2 that has a distorted rutile structure and is diamagnetic. This reduction is reversible. The NbO2 structure only exists when the oxygen ratio is maintained close to 2. Thus, an oxide of the composition NbO2.09 shows X-ray diffraction lines that are characteristic of the pentoxide, even though it contains only a small excess of oxygen. NbO2 is insoluble in water and is a very strong reducing agent in the dry state.12 Between Nb2O5 and NbO2, there exists a homologous series of structurally related niobium oxide phases having the general formula Nb3n+1O8n-2 where n = 5, 6, 7, 8. In addition, oxides of formula Nb12O29 (12Nb2O52O) and Nb94O232 (47Nb2O53O), which are stoichiometrically related to Nb2O5, have been reported. These materials possess paramagnetic properties.4 Further reduction of Nb2O5 (15731973 K) produces the gray monoxide NbO that has a cubic structure and metallic conductivity but differs markedly from its vanadium analogue in that its composition ranges only from NbO0.982 to NbO1.008. The diffraction lines of NbO2 begin to appear in NbO1.04, while the oxides NbO0.94 and NbO0.87 show diffraction lines that are characteristics of the metal. The structure of NbO is a unique variant of the rock salt NaCl structure in which there are Nb vacancies at the eight corners of the unit cell and an O vacancy at its center (Figure 1). Therefore, the structure could be described as a vacancy-defect NaCl structure Nb0.75+0.25O0.75-0.25. However, since all the vacancies are ordered, it is better to consider NbO as having a new structure type in which both the Nb and O form four coplanar bonds. The central feature of this structure is a 3D framework of Nb6 octahedral clusters (NbNb 298 pm, cf. NbNb 285 pm in Nb metal), which accounts for the metallic conductivity of the compound. The topological relationship between the NbO structure and SOD-type (zeolite) nets has been recognized. 14 Figure 1 Crystal structure of NbO; (·) niobium, () oxygen.
The hydrated pentoxide (niobic acid) is obtained as a white precipitate with indeterminate water content when water-soluble complexes of the metal are hydrolyzed or when a solution of niobate is acidified. It is most commonly prepared by fusing the anhydrous pentoxide with 510 times its weight of alkali-metal pyrosulfate or hydrogen sulfate. This forms a soluble sulfato complex that is then leached with sulfuric acid or with a solution of another complexing agent such as oxalic acid. The hydrous oxide is then precipitated by diluting and boiling the solution in sulfuric acid or by adding ammonia to the oxalic acid solution.12 Niobic acid is an insoluble polymeric oxide, and it seems probable that polymerization takes place through the intermolecular elimination of water between units such as Nb(OH)5 or NbO(OH)3. Different types of niobium oxide ionic species [NbO2(OH)4-3, Nb6O19-8, HxNb6O19-(8-x) (x = 1, 2, or 3), and Nb12O36  12] exist in aqueous solutions, and the solution pH as well as the niobium oxide concentration determines the specific niobium ionic species present (Table 1). 15 Table 1. Aqueous Niobiate Species at a pH Range from 14.5 to 0.55a solutionpH species >14.5 NbO2(OH)43-
14.5 Nb6O198-
11.5 HxNb6O19(8-x)-
6.5 Nb12O3612-,Nb2O5·nH2O
3.65 Nb12O3612-,Nb2O5·nH2O
0.55 Nb2O5·nH2O
aReproduced from ref 15. Copyright 1990 Elsevier Science.
Niobium oxide compounds generally possess an octahedrally coordinated NbO6 structure that is distorted to different extents depending on whether its polyhedra are corner- or edge-shared. Occasionally, NbO7 and NbO8 structures can also be found in niobium oxide phases (Table 2). After the Nb2O5·nH2O precipitate is dried at 393 K for 2 h, it possesses features very similar to amorphous Nb2O5 in which there are slightly distorted NbO6, NbO7, and NbO8 sites. In addition, Nb2O5·nH2O also possesses a small number of highly distorted NbO6 sites. The Nb5+ cation is very large and has difficulty fitting into an oxygen anion tetrahedron. Thus, only a few niobium oxide compounds (i.e., YNbO4, YbNbO4, LaNbO4, and SmNbO4) possess a tetrahedrally coordinated NbO4 structure that is similar to the scheelite-like structure. Jehng and Wachs15 also discovered that the interaction of niobium oxide with basic surfaces of a support results in the formation of highly distorted NbO6 octahedra, while its interaction with acidic surfaces result in the formation of slightly distorted NbO6, NbO7, and NbO8 groups. The dehydration process further distorts the already highly distorted NbO6 octahedra due to the removal of coordinated water but does not perturb the only slightly distorted NbO6 octahedra. The highly distorted NbO6 octahedra possess NbO bonds and are associated with Lewis acid sites. 16 In contrast, the slightly distorted NbO6 octahedra as well as the NbO7 and NbO8 groups only possess NbO bonds and are associated with Brnsted acid sites. Lewis acid sites are present in all supported niobium oxide systems, but the Brnsted acid sites are limited to the Nb2O5/Al2O3 and Nb2O5/SiO2 systems.15 Table 2. Relationship between Niobium Oxide Structures and Raman Frequenciesa symmetry type Ramanbands compounds aReproduced from ref 15. Copyright 1990 Elsevier Science.
Hydrated niobium oxide (Nb2O5·nH2O; niobic acid) has a high acid strength (Ho = 5.68.2). It remains bound to the support surface even in the presence of water and acts as an effective catalyst for reactions in which water molecules participate or are liberated. 17 It also has been reported 18,19 that the acidity of niobic acid increases upon treatment with sulfuric or phosphoric acid. Generally, hydrated niobium oxide crystallizes at 853 K, and its strong acid property disappears when it is heated to temperatures higher than 800 K. 20-22 To summarize, Nb2O5·nH2O possesses both Lewis acid sites (which increase with increasing pretreatment temperatures up to 773 K and then decrease at higher temperatures) and Brnsted acid sites (which are most abundant at 373 K and decrease at higher temperatures) on its surface. 23 Experiments performed by Fraissard et al. 24 showed that the theoretical number of protons per gram of hydrated niobium pentoxide at 573 K (H2Nb6O16) is 1.6 × 1021, which indicates that niobic acid contains two hydroxyl groups per unit cell. As the number of coordinated water molecules increases, the number of Brnsted acid sites (BAS) decreases, the concentration of hydronium ions (H3O+) increases, and the formation of H2O···HO species is observed. In samples containing more than 2 water molecules per H2Nb6O16, there are no longer any BAS, and the water molecules do not interact with the surface of the niobic acid. However, there is a linear correlation between the number of the adsorbed water molecules and the concentration of hydronium ions. The H3O+ concentration becomes constant when the number of adsorbed water molecules per BAS (nH2O/BAS)  5.3. The ionization coefficient is ca. 0.2 when nH2O/BAS = 1, so at this water content the acidity of niobic acid is comparable to that of NH4Y (Si/Al = 2.4) and the dealuminated form of ammonium Y-type zeolite (Si/Al = 4.4). At saturated hydration, 50% of niobic acid's acid sites are ionized, revealing that only one of the two acid sites is particularly strong.
B. Niobium Oxide(V): Polymorphism
The amorphous niobium oxide(V) begins to crystallize in a low-temperature form called the T form (from the German tief for low) at about 773 K. Crystallization occurs more rapidly at higher temperatures until about 1103 K, where upon a transition to a medium-temperature (M) form becomes apparent.12 This transition continues more rapidly at higher temperatures and heating for 4 h at 1273 K brings about a complete conversion. At even higher temperatures, a third transformation to a high-temperature (H) form has been reported. 12,25 These polymorphic transitions take place slowly, at temperatures which are not well-defined, and are irreversible. Some authors 26 have suggested that, although these three crystal modifications, (which have been re-designated as γ = T, β = M, α = H) exist, the β- and α-phases are essentially the same, and the transition therefore is to be regarded as occurring from γ to α. A further high-temperature metastable ε-phase has been observed to crystallize from molten Nb2O5 without supercooling and to transform spontaneously and exothermically to the α-modification at any temperature between 1103 and 1473 K. In fact, the only stable phase between 1103 and about 1673 K is the α-form. A low temperature δ-phase, which was mentioned in the paper of Frevel and Rinn, 27 was later shown to be a poorly crystalline variety of the γ-form.
H niobia (Figure 2) has a shear structure consisting of blocks of NbO6 octahedra (3 × 4 and 3 × 5) that share corners with octahedra in their own block and edges with octahedra in other blocks. 28,29 One of the 28 Nb atoms in each unit cell is present in a tetrahedral site, which occurs at some block junctions, as depicted by the black circles in Figure 2.
Figure 2 Crystal structure of H-Nb2O5; (bold diamonds) NbO6 octahedra, (·) Nb in tetrahedral site. (Reproduced with permission from ref 28. Copyright 1970 John Wiley & Sons Limited.) The T phase has an entirely different structure, as shown in Figure 3. The unit cell contains 42 oxygen atom positions (large open circles). Eight of the Nb ions are present in distorted octahedra, while another eight Nb ions occupy pentagonal bipyramids. 29,30 The remaining 0.8 Nb ion per unit cell is located in interstitial 9-coordinated sites in the unit cell (small open circles).
Figure 3 Projection of the structure of T-Nb2O5 parallel to the [001] plane; () oxygen, (·, ) niobium. (Reproduced with permission from ref 30. Copyright 1975 Munksgaard International.) The principal polymorphs of stoichiometric Nb2O5 described above, T(γ), M(β), and H(α), are obtained as polycrystalline products from the thermal treatment of pentoxide in contact with air or oxygen at varying temperatures. Single crystals of these polymorphs cannot be obtained from pure Nb2O5. However, they can be formed by chemical transport reactions in the presence of a halogen, usually chlorine, e.g.:12 After this initial step, the pentoxide is enclosed with a suitable amount of pentachloride and chlorine gas in a sealed tube that is maintained in a temperature gradient. By varying the upper and lower temperatures at the respective ends of the tube, it is possible to obtain well-formed single crystals of not only the previously known polymorphs, T(γ), M(β), and H(α), but also of other forms. The primary new forms obtained possess a characteristic and well-defined X-ray powder diffraction pattern and have been designated B (Bltter (German) for leaflets or ζ), N (needles), and P (prism or η) in accordance with their crystal habit. 31 Ko and Weissman concluded in their paper 32 that the many structures of bulk niobium pentoxide can be grouped into low-temperature and high-temperature forms, with the latter being more ordered. The crystallization behavior of niobium pentoxide, however, is influenced by the starting materials used, impurities that may be present, and any interactions with other components. These interactions are known to affect both the physical (mobility) and chemical (reducibility, acidity) properties of catalytic systems containing niobium pentoxide. Despite this variability, Nb2O5 crystallizes into a low-temperature form (TT or T) at ca. 773 K, a medium-temperature form (M or B) at ca. 1073 K, and a high-temperature form (H) at ca. 1273 K32 when starting from an amorphous phase (Figure 4). The two low-temperature forms of Nb2O5, TT or T, have long been thought to be the same, because (i) they have similar X-ray diffraction patterns (some reflections that are split in T niobiaorthorhombicoccur as one peak in TT niobiamonoclinic) and (ii) the TT phase does not always form from pure components as starting material. These observations suggest that TT may simply be a less crystalline form of T, stabilized by impurities. The main differences are that some of the oxygen atoms in T are replaced by monovalent species (such as Cl-) or vacanciesthese being reported as impuritiesin TT while the Nb atoms occupy a range of positions between two crystallographically similar sites. The structure of H-Nb2O5 is highly ordered and consists of a sequence of blocks with (5 × 3) or (4 × 3) groups of corner-sharing NbO6 octahedra within each block. M-Nb2O5 has a related structure, while the structure of B-Nb2O5 consists of rutile-like ribbons of edge-sharing NbO6 octahedra. 33 Figure 4 Polymorphism of Nb2O5. (Reproduced with permission from ref 32. Copyright 1990 Elsevier Science.) To summarize, there are many polymorphic phases of niobium pentoxide, i.e., TT-, T-, B-, M-, H-, N-, and P-Nb2O5. The conversion of one form to another upon being heated in air is illustrated in Figure 5.31 Figure 5 Interconversion of the various polymorphs of Nb2O5. (Reproduced with permission from ref 31. Copyright 1966 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH.)
IV. Niobium Phosphates
Niobium oxide, especially partially hydrated niobium oxide, is well-known as a valuable solid acid catalyst because of its strong surface acidity even in the presence of water.17 However, the number of acid sites on the niobium oxide surface is relatively small, and the surface acidity is greatly decreased at higher temperatures (>700 K) due to the crystallization of the previously amorphous niobium oxide as the γ crystalline form. This decrease in acidity upon increasing the pretreatment temperature can be attributed to the transformation of protonic sites to Lewis acid sites with the elimination of water and to the loss of surface area. Okazaki et al. 34 have found that a H3PO4 treatment is effective for enhancing and retaining the surface acidity at higher temperatures. They also found that the crystallization can be inhibited by preparing niobium pentoxide with phosphoric acid. It is well-known that commercial niobium phosphate, which is amorphous, shows strong surface acidity and could promote some acid-catalyzed reactions. 35 Thus, niobium phosphate has a texture and acidic and catalytic properties similar to niobium oxide, but it has the advantage that it conserves these properties at higher pretreatment temperatures. 36 Okazaki et al.34 showed that amorphous niobium phosphate does not crystallize prior to 1073 K and exhibits high catalytic activity even after heat treatment at temperatures as high as 773 K. This material was prepared by the addition of H3PO4 to an aqueous solution of potassium niobate. Aging control and removal of the K+ are important to enhancing the catalytic activity of the resultant niobium phosphate. This material also can be prepared by a one-step solgel synthesis followed by supercritical drying with carbon dioxide. 37 Various types of amines can intercalate in the interlayer spaces of NbOPO4·nH2O. 38 Niobium phosphates that contain neutral acid molecules of H3PO4, H2SO4, and water in the interlayer spaces also have been prepared, but the acids were easily removed by washing with water. Layered acid niobium phosphate Nb2(OH)2(HPO4)(PO4)2·4.4H2O consists of two layers of Nb(OH)2PO4 connected by PO4 groups, as if neutral H3PO4 intercalated into the layer spaces had condensed to link the layers.
Kinomura and Kumada 39 prepared an alkali metal niobium phosphate NaNb2(OH)2(PO4)3·2.5H2O and an acid niobium phosphate HNb2(OH)2(PO4)3·H2O. These compounds are isostructural, having a three-dimensional framework composed of NbO(H2O)(PO4) layers connected by PO4 groups. The sodium ions and protons are exchangeable with other alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, and alkylammonium ions. The acid niobium phosphate can also intercalate n-alkylamines. The PO4 group that links the layers could be removed by ion exchange with certain ions and by intercalation with certain amines, and this transformed the three-dimensional (3D) structure into a layered structure.
Niobium phosphate bronzes (NPB), represented by (K3Nb6P4O26)n·KNb2PO8, with n = , which are analogous to the phosphate tungsten bronzes, have been reported by Benabbas et al. 40 The structure of this material is built up from NbO6 octahedra and PO4 tetrahedra. 41 The NbO6 octahedra form infinite chains or layers by corner-sharing and are connected by PO4 tetrahedra via corner-sharing to give low-dimensional structures (Figure 6). These are of interest because other compounds with quasi-low-dimensional structures, such as oxide bronzes, have interesting properties, including magnetic properties and superconductivity.
Figure 6 Layer of six-sided rings of NbO6 and PO4 polyhedra stacked along (010) in K3Nb6P4O26. (Reproduced with permission from ref 41. Copyright 1993 Elsevier Science.) Niobium is also an effective promoter of (VO)2P2O7 to form compounds of the type ((VO)xNb1-x)2P2O7. These compounds retain the oxidizing ability of (VO)2P2O7 and possess strong Lewis acid sites. 42
V. Molecular Sieves Containing Niobium
A. Zeolites
Zeolites are natural or synthetic aluminosilicates with properties that make them very useful as heterogeneous catalysts, i.e., they have exchangeable cations (called extraframework cations) equivalent to the number of tetrahedral aluminum atoms in the network. Extraframework cations can be substituted by protons or other cations to result in changes to the zeolite's acidity. The zeolite pores (which may be one or more sizes) have diameters close to molecular dimensions (0.31.2 nm) depending on the size of the cation exchanged. Transition metals in different oxidation states and coordinations can be introduced into different zeolite structures either as charge-neutralizing cations, supported metal clusters, complexes, or lattice cations.There is little information about the introduction of niobia into zeolite lattices. Because niobia salts are very sensitive to moisture, the traditional methods for modification of zeolites, specifically slurrying in aqueous solution, cannot be applied. Therefore, a solid-state interaction between niobia and a zeolite was explored as a method for Nb incorporation to zeolites. Thoret et al. 43 reported that Nb2O5 does not enter the zeolite, regardless of the reaction temperature or the composition of the mixture. Ziolek et al. 44,45 have stated no exchange of the Na+ cations in NaY with niobium cations occurs during the heating of NaY with a Nb2O5 mixture at 975 K, whereas the exchange of cations does seem to occur on ammonium and dealuminated forms of zeolites. A decrease in the density of Brnsted acid sites and an increase in the density of Lewis acid sites were observed for the latter samples by IR spectroscopy following pyridine adsorption, TPD of ammonia, and 2-propanol decomposition.The traditional procedure for cation exchange between NaY and an ethanol solution of NbCl5 permits the replacement of Na+ cations in the zeolite by niobium or niobium oxide species. 46 This conclusion is based on the following observations: (i) the removal of Na+ from the zeolite lattice, (ii) the formation of a new phase registered by XRD and IR spectra, and (iii) an increase in 2-propanol and cumene conversion (see Table 3). These observations do not result when the exchange is attempted between NH4NaY or DNH4Y and a NbCl5 solution.Table 3. Cumene Transformation at 673 Ka productdistribution(%) catalyst cumene conv.(%) propene benzene n-propyl benzene NaY 3 2 4 90 NbNaY 61 51 47 2 NbNaY-H2O 91 48 48 2 aReproduced from ref 46.Chang et al. 47 reported that a Nb-containing ZSM-5 zeolite was prepared by the impregnation of H-ZSM-5 or Na-ZSM-5 with a freshly prepared aqueous solution of niobium oxalate. They believe that Nb5+ is the charge balancing cation in the zeolite. Niobium-containing zeolites that have structures isomorphous with that of ZSM-5 were first reported by Saxton and Zajacek. 48 Molecular sieves containing niobium iso-morphously substituted in their framework lattice were obtained by hydrothermal crystallization using quaternary ammonium templates.A novel niobium silicate molecular sieve of MFI topology, designated as NbS-1, was synthesized hydrothermally and characterized by ESR and other physical methods. 49 γ-Irradiation of activated NbS-1 led to the formation of two radiation-induced hole centers (V centers) located on SiOSi and NbOSi units of the framework, as identified by ESR. The NbOSi unit can be deduced from a 10-line hyperfine structure attributable to 93Nb (I = 9/2, 100% abundance). This provides convincing evidence for the incorporation of Nb into the silica framework.A zeolite ZSM-5-supported oxide (5 wt %) was prepared from a niobium pentachloride methanol solution and was dried and calcined at 773 K as reported by Wierzchowski and Zatorski. 50 Recently, the synthesis of a microporous framework niobium silicate displaying zeolite-type properties and containing niobium in octahedral coordination was reported by Rocha et al. 51 The novel material denoted AM-11 (Aveiro-Manchester microporous solid no. 11) was prepared from niobium oxalate and tetraethyl orthosilicate by autoclaving a mixture of these materials at 473 K for 15 days.Niobium can play an active role in the stabilization of Cu-ZSM-5. 52,53 The addition of niobia also can decrease the number of aluminum atoms eliminated from the lattice of NH4-ZSM-5 during its thermal treatment. 54
B. Mesoporous Niobium Silicates of MCM-41 Type
In 1992, the hexagonally packed mesoporous materials prepared by Mobil 55 were confined to the silica- and aluminosilica-based MCM-41 family. These molecular sieves are formed by a mechanism in which surfactant liquidcrystal phases are believed to serve as templates (Figure 7). The structure and pore dimensions of MCM-41 materials are highly dependent on the properties of the surfactant, which supports this templating mechanism, but other phases including a cubic phase could also be achieved in the same manner. The diameter of these pores can be tuned between 0.2 and 10 nm by varying the length of the hydrophobic part of the surfactant. After calcination, these mesostructured materials exhibit ordered arrangements of the pores. These materials are not crystalline, and so their pore-size distributions are not as narrow as those of the microporous substances (zeolites). Their utility is due to their large, uniform pore sizes, which allow sterically hindered molecules to diffuse, and to their regular pore structures, which can serve as supports for conductive and magnetic materials.
Figure 7 Possible mechanistic pathways for the formation of MCM-41: (1) liquid crystal phase initiated and (2) silicate anion initiated. (Reproduced with permission from ref 55. Copyright 1992 American Chemical Society.) A mesoporous niobium-containing silicate of the MCM-41 type was prepared for the first time by Ziolek et al. 56 Sodium silicate and niobium oxalate were utilized as silicon and niobium sources, respectively, and cetyltrimethylammonium chloride was used as a surfactant. The gel that formed from these components was loaded into a stoppered PP bottle and heated at 373 K for various lengths of time. The best material was obtained after heating for 48 h. After heating the reaction mixture at 373 K for 24 h and then cooling it to room temperature, the pH was adjusted to 11 by the dropwise addition of oxalic acid with vigorous stirring. Following adjustment of the pH, the sample was heated for an additional 24 h. The resulting precipitated product was washed with distilled water, dried in air at ambient temperature, and calcined at 773 K. X-ray diffraction, N2 sorption measurements (Figure 8), and transmission electron microscopy studies confirmed that the product exhibited the ordered mesoporous structure of NbMCM-41 when the initial Si/Nb ratio was 16, 32, and 64. 56,57 These synthesized materials exhibit cation exchange properties, which confirms the incorporation of niobium into the lattice of the NbMCM-41. 53,58 The niobium-containing MCM-41 structure is more mechanically stable than the related silicaalumina mesoporous molecular sieves. The hydrogen form of niobium-containing MCM-41 is less acidic than the analogous form of aluminum-containing MCM-41,58 and this reduced acidity leads to a higher catalytic selectivity to thiols in the hydrosulfurization of alcohols. 59,60 Figure 8 (A) XRD patterns of mesoporous materials of MCM-41 type containing niobium (number in parentheses indicates Si/Nb ratio). (B) N2 adsorption (filled symbols)/desorption (open symbols) isotherms of niobium containing MCM-41 materials. (Reproduced with permission from ref 57. Copyright 1998 Nicolaus University Press.)
C. Mesoporous Oxides
The extension of MCM-41-like structures into the realm of pure transition metal oxides represents an important development from both the catalytic and electronic standpoints, because the variable oxidation states of transition metal oxides are useful in tailoring their catalytic, conductive, and magnetic properties. 61,62 By taking advantage of the variable coordination chemistry that is possible at the metal center of an alkoxide such as tetraethyloorthosilicate or aluminum tri-sec-butoxide, Antonelli and Ying 63 recently succeeded in preparing a stable transition metal mesostructure from which the template could easily be removed. The authors first allowed niobium(V) ethoxide to react with a long-chain alkylamine in the absence of water to form an amino(tetraethoxy)niobium complex. In this way they obtained a covalent connection between two species as represented in Sufficient time was allowed for the complex to form ordered hexagonal structures, and then water was added to hydrolyze the NbOC bonds. The condensation reaction started immediately and was reinforced by hydrothermal treatment. Template removal was most easily achieved by washing the sample with a HNO3/EtOH solution at 313 K. In this way Nb-TMS-1, a mesoporous, hydrated niobium oxide, was obtained. This Nb-TMS-1 exhibited a specific surface area of 434 m2 g-1.63 In general, the synthesis of Nb-TMS-1 is strongly affected by the initial reaction conditions such as the temperature, the surfactant to metal ratio, the pH, and the nature of solvents:(i) Aging up to 355 K increased the structural stability of Nb-TMS materials, probably due to the resulting increase in the material's crystallinity and an increase in its condensation, which leads to some degree of pore shrinkage. (ii) Formation of Nb-TMS occurred at acidic or basic pH values. Amorphous niobia is formed at both the upper and lower ends of the pH scale. (iii) Antonelli et al. 64 also studied the influence of headgroups on the synthesis of hexagonally packed niobium oxide. They concluded that sulfate, sulfonate, and hydroxyl surfactants yielded amorphous aerogels with high surface areas, broad pore size distributions, and no XRD patterns (after 1 h at 373 K); dimethylphosphino, methylamino, dimethylamino, 4-pyridino, and 2,4-pentanedionate surfactants (after 5 days at 373 K) also yielded materials with no crystalline patterns; carboxylate and 4-anilino surfactants gave materials that showed a broad amorphous hump centered at 2ϑ = 2 by XRD, and only the amino and phosphate headgroups produced discernible hexagonal phases. Amino surfactants generally are desirable over phosphate surfactants because the former are more easily removed.64 (iv) The materials that were obtained from the reactions having surfactant(dodecylamine) to Nb(OEt)5 ratios of 0.3:1, 0.5:1, and 0.75:1 presented hexagonal arrangements of the pores (Nb-TMS1). The sharpness of the XRD peaks (100), (110), and (200) increased with an increase in the surfactant to alkoxide ratio. The sample prepared at a 1.5:1 surfactant to alkoxide ratio was a hexagonal phase (Nb-TMS2), which can be indexed to a P63/mmc unit cell.64 A related mesostructured silica phase, SBA, prepared by Stucky 65 was also indexed in this space group. The materials prepared at ratios of 1.0:1 and 1.25:1 appeared to be either mixed phases or less crystallized single phases. At a 2.0:1 ratio, the material obtained was a layered MCM-50 analogue (Nb-TMS-4). (v) Increasing the surfactant chain length favored the formation of layered and cubic phases. The sample prepared at an octadecylamine to Nb(OEt)5 ratio of 0.75:1 was hexagonal (Nb-TMS-1). The sample prepared at a 1.0:1 ratio was cubic and can be indexed to a Pm3n space group (Nb-TMS-3), while that prepared at a 1.25:1 ratio was layered (Nb-TMS-4).64 Antonelli and Ying63,64,66,67 proposed a new approach to the synthesis of transition metal oxide (particularly niobium oxide) mesoporous materials. In this synthesis, the surfactant headgroup is directly ligated to the metal alkoxide prior to hydrolysis and condensation. This permits the required interaction between the organic and inorganic phases before the introduction of water. Another key feature of this ligand-assisted templating (LAT) approach is that the metal was directly connected to the inorganic precursor without a charge-matching or hydrogen-bonding interaction.Gimon-Kinsel and Balkus 68,69 reported a new method [called pulsed laser deposition (PLD)] to prepare Nb-TMS1. PLD has been proven to be an effective method for producing thin films, but the laser-deposited molecular sieve films generally have low crystallinity. Fortunately, the crystallinity of these films can be improved through reorganization induced by a brief hydrothermal treatment. The thin films of Nb-TMS1 have found applications such as capacitive-type chemical sensors and humidity sensors since Nb-TMS1 possesses semiconductor properties.Other authors 70 also have explored the synthesis of channel structures within transition metal oxide frameworks. For example McCullen and Vartuli 71 prepared a stable saltgel by reacting a surfactant niobotungstate salt with TEOS (tetraethylorthosilicate) to form a lamellar phase of MCM-50 type. During this treatment, NbOSi linkages were formed. Removal of the cationic surfactant by acid extraction resulted in porous structures with surface areas up to 265 m2 g-1.Recently, Abe et al. 72 prepared porous niobium oxide by the exfoliation of K4Nb6O17. A composite of the niobate sheets and MgO particles was obtained by precipitating the exfoliated two-dimensional niobate sheets with MgO fine particles. Porous niobium oxide was formed after removal of the MgO particles from the composite via thermal treatment. The material prepared in this manner exhibited high photocatalytic activity.A synthesis of the microporous niobium oxide molecular sieve Nb-TMS6 through the use of bifunctional templating molecules was performed by Sun and Ying. 73 Unlike Nb-TMS1 and Nb-TMS3, which displayed long-range packing of mesopores in hexagonal and cubic arrangements, respectively, the packing of micropores in Nb-TMS-6 appeared to be rather disordered with no clearly defined crystal phases.Lately, porous niobia having three-dimensional structures patterned over multiple length scales were prepared by combining micromolding, polystyrene sphere templating, and cooperative assembly of inorganic solgel species with amphiphilic triblock copolymers. 74 A cubic mesophase resulted from the application of Pluronic F127 [EO106PO70EO106poly(ethyleneoxide)b-poly(propyleneoxide)b-poly(ethyleneoxide) with a general formula of EOnPOmEOn] as the structure-directing block copolymer species, whereas a hexagonal mesophase was obtained when Pluronic P123 (EO20PO70EO20) was used.
VI. Other Niobium Compounds
Transition metal carbides and nitrides are well-known for their refractory, electronic, and magnetic properties. They have already found application in cutting tools, wear-resistant parts, and hard coatings and as electronic and magnetic components and superconductors. However, they have not yet been widely developed as catalysts. 75,76 Nitrides are commonly prepared by direct interaction between transition metals and dinitrogen or ammonia. In the past decade, a new method of preparing nitrides has been developed using temperature-programmed nitridation of an oxide precursor, and this has led to materials with higher specific surface areas. Kim et al. 77 performed experiments with Nb2O5 and optimized the nitridation process. Niobium oxynitride with a face-centered cubic structure was prepared by a temperature-programmed synthesis method consisting of passing 20% (v/v) NH3/He over Nb2O5 while heating to a final temperature in the range of 10271173 K. 78 A new family of bimetallic oxynitride compounds, MIMIION (MI, MII = Mo, W, V, Nb, Cr, Mn, and Co), has been synthesized by nitriding bimetallic oxide precursors with ammonia gas via a temperature-programmed reaction. 79 The temperature required for the synthesis is moderate (<1120 K), the cycles are short, and the parameters are easy to control.Recently Zhou and Andrews 80 reported that laser-ablated niobium atoms reacted with nitrogen atoms and molecules during condensation with a pure nitrogen pass in an excess of argon. NbN and its dinitrogen complex were trapped, and NbN2 was produced upon annealing in solid nitrogen. The same method was also applied to the preparation of NNbO, Nb(η1-NO)x (where x = 2, 3) and (N2)(NbO2) molecules in the reaction of laser-ablated niobium atoms with NO. 81 A temperature-programmed method was also applied to the synthesis of niobium and bimetallic NbMo carbides.75,82,83 The carburization of β-niobium oxide (β-Nb2O5) to niobium carbide (NbC) in a 20% (v/v) CH4/H2 flow at temperatures above 1370 K takes place by the following steps: Niobium hydrides are formed by a chemical reaction between niobium metal powder (formed by ball-milling) and liquid decalin or tetralin when the reaction is carried out at room temperature and 1 atm. 84 Niobium carbide also is formed when metal powder is used in small quantities.There is also evidence that silicon can form true interstitial compounds with group V metals (in contrast to the group VIVIII elements). When Si is sputtered on Nb at temperatures of 900 < T < 1100 K, the silicide NbSi2 is formed. At temperatures of 1100 < T < 1200 K, the silicide Nb5Si3 is formed, and at T > 1200 K, Nb4Si is formed prior to the transformation of both silicides into NbSi2. Sputtering Si at temperatures of 1200 < T < 1400 K produces the silicide Nb4Si. 85 Niobium sulfide has received much attention in the past few years. 86 Like niobium oxide, it possesses unique acidic properties that are applicable to hydrotreating reactions. Unsupported niobium sulfides are usually prepared by direct combination of the elements in evacuated silica tubes followed by intercalationdeintercalation treatment to improve the surface area. 87 Niobium sulfides are very sensitive to support effects.87 Usually carbon or alumina are used as their support. 86-88
VII. Application in Heterogeneous Catalysis
A. Various Functions of Niobium Compounds in Catalysis
The function of niobium compounds in catalysis can be that of promoter or active phase, support, solid acid catalyst, or redox material.
1. Promoter or Active Phase
A supported metal oxide often shows a different catalytic activity from its bulk oxide. Therefore, many studies have been undertaken to determine the nature of supported niobium species. Thus, many investigations have attempted to control the surface species by selecting (i) suitable support materials (silica, 89-94 alumina, 95-98 magnesia,95,98 titania,95,96,99,100 zirconia,95,96 and zeolites: Y-type45-47 and ZSM-547,48,50); (ii) niobium precursors (niobium chloride,90,99 niobium oxalate,95,97,98 niobium ethoxide,89,95,97 niobium acid,92,93,96,100 niobates, 101 and niobium complexes with hydrocarbon ligands91,97); and (iii) preparation methods (including the equilibrium adsorption of metal complexes in aqueous solution, which is a simple procedure for the preparation of uniform species dispersed on supports93).Three different surface niobia species have been identified on oxide supports: 4-fold coordinated surface NbO4 species that appear at very low surface coverages (θNb  1), 5-fold coordinated surface NbO5 species present at intermediate surface coverages (θNb < 1), and 6-fold coordinated surface NbO6 found at high surface coverages (0.5 < θNb < 1). On silica, only NbO4 is present because high surface coverages cannot be achieved on this support due to the low number and reactivity of the silica surface hydroxyls.15 The preparation method does not appear to influence the structure and the reactivity of the surface niobium oxide species on silica and is therefore not a critical parameter.97 A series of Nb2O5/SiO2 catalysts showed no dependence on the niobium source used, whether it was niobium oxalate in water, niobium ethoxide in propanol, or nonaqueous Nb allyl. These materials exhibited only surface NbO4 species. Also the synthesis method did not affect the reactivity of the resulting materials, as each produced indistinguishable methanol oxidation results.The formation and location of the surface niobium oxide species are controlled by the substrate's surface hydroxyl chemistry. The surface niobium oxide species are located in the outermost layer of the catalysts as an overlayer. Calcination temperature is an important parameter that controls the activation and deactivation of the supported niobium oxide catalysts, but it is not critical so long as moderate temperatures, 673773 K, are used.97 The identity of the specific oxide support is a critical parameter since it dramatically affects the reactivity of the surface niobium oxide species and determines whether its sites are active for redox or acid catalysis. Thus, the critical parameters that affect the catalytic properties of the supported niobium oxide catalysts are the specific type of oxide support used and the catalyst composition.97 Lewis acidity was found in all of the supported niobium oxide systems, while Brnsted acid sites were only detected in niobia supported on alumina and silica.96 As previously discussed, basic support surfaces result in the formation of highly distorted NbO6 groups whereas acidic surfaces lead to the formation of slightly distorted NbO6, NbO7, and NbO8 groups.The surface niobium oxide overlayer is quite stable even at high calcination temperatures due to the strength of the surface niobium oxidesupport interaction (SOSI). 102 The other observed interactions are the metal[non-SMSI oxide (SiO2) promoted with SMSI oxides (e.g., Nb2O5)] interaction 103 and the strong metalsupport (Nb2O5) interaction (SMSI),89 in which Nb2O5 plays the role of a promoter or a support, respectively. Those interactions that allow the reactants to interact simultaneously with the metal and the promoter are the most relevant to catalysis. When the catalyst consists of metal particles covered by patches of promoter oxide, some steps in the overall reaction may be catalyzed at the metalpromotergas/liquid interphase. The creation of a metalpromoter perimeter has proven pivotal to the catalyst's performance in reactions such as ethane hydrogenolysis or CO hydrogenation. A supported metalpromoter interaction (SMPI) is observed in niobium oxide-promoted Rh/SiO2 catalysts,94,104,105 niobia-promoted Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, 106 and silica-supported NiNb2O6 catalysts. 107
2. Support Effect
Niobium oxide has been used as an oxide support for such metals as Ru, 108 Rh, 109 Pt, 110-112 Re,108 Ni, 113-115 Cr, 108,116 W,108 Co, 117-119 V,108,120,121 P,120 Ge,120 Mo,108,120 Sb,120 Pb,120 Bi,120 and Fe. 122 When used in this manner, the properties of the niobia are improved by the addition of these elements, while its high selectivity is still maintained.Niobia is a typical SMSI oxide. The SMSI geometrically affects the catalysts' activities due to surface decoration. The catalytic activities observed in structure-sensitive reactions such as the hydrogenolysis of hydrocarbons are strongly suppressed by SMSI, but this suppression is moderate in structure-insensitive reactions such as the dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons. 123 However, very recently, Prvulescu et al. 124 found that the activity-determining factor in hydrogenolysis reactions carried out on niobia-supported cobalt is not the SMSI but the effect of the crystallite size and/or the presence of toxins from the metal precursors, such as Cl- from NbCl5.
3. Solid Acid Catalyst
As was previously stated, niobic acid (Nb2O5·nH2O) calcined at moderate temperatures of 373573 K showed an acidic character (Ho  5.6), although it became almost neutral when calcined at 873 K.23 This suggests that niobic acid which contains water, i.e., Nb2O5 activated at relatively low temperatures, would be effective as a catalyst for reactions that liberate a water molecule. These reactions include esterification 125 or polycondensation, 126 which is usually carried out using solid acids. Niobium phosphate, which has a higher acid strength of Ho  8.2, also shows remarkable activity in acid-catalyzed reactions in which water molecules participate. Niobic acid pretreated with phosphoric acid is another example of a solid acid catalyst with a high ratio of Lewis acidity/Brnsted acidity. 127 The additivation of niobia with phosphate 128 led to the creation of strongly acidic sites on the surface of this oxide. The activity, selectivity, and stability exhibited by this catalyst in the cumene cracking reaction were similar to those of a zeolite-containing material, indicating that the active sites are Brnsted acids. In contrast, sulfate additivation of niobia128 seemed to generate Lewis acid sites, as deduced from the poor stability of the material in the cracking reaction and the prominence of α-methylstyrene among its reaction products. The impregnation of phosphated niobia with nickel and tungsten appeared to poison the acidity of the support. Of course, mixed oxides containing niobia show different acidic properties.
Datka et al.96 investigated the acidic properties of supported niobium oxide catalysts and found Lewis acidity in the silica-, magnesia-, titania-, and zirconia-supported systems, while Brnsted acid sites were only detected when the niobia was supported on alumina or silica. The number of Lewis acid sites (LAS) on the niobia/titania and niobia/zirconia catalysts decreased nonlinearly with niobia loading, which suggests that new LAS are formed in these systems as existing sites are occupied by the niobia. A linear decrease in the LAS concentration with an increase in niobia loading would mean that the LAS on the surface of the support disappear proportionally to the fraction of the surface occupied by the deposited niobia. The created Lewis acid sites are usually weaker than the LAS initially present on the oxide support. Brnsted acid sites appear when the niobium oxide species reaches a critical surface coverage (0.5 monolayer) and then increase linearly as the surface coverage increases untill a maximum is reached at less than a monolayer.
The addition of niobia to alumina is known to increase the surface acidity of the alumina, which increases its hydroprocessing activity. 129 Support compositions that maximize the surface acidity also maximize the removal of sulfur and nitrogen during hydroprocessing.
Moderate strength Lewis acid sites are generated during the dehydroxylation of hydrogen forms of Nb-containing mesoporous molecular sieves (H-NbMCM-41 materials).58 Such materials can be useful catalysts for processes requiring the presence of Lewis acid sites where a high acid strength induces side reactions and/or coke formation. Thus, they have been proposed as catalysts for the synthesis of thiols and organic sulfides from alcohols and hydrogen sulfide.56 Although niobium-containing catalysts were studied in various acid-catalyzed reactions and their acidity was evaluated by various techniques, they have not been extensively used as acid catalysts in practice.
4. Redox Material
One of the major applications of niobium-based catalysts has been in the area of oxidation catalysis. Niobia catalysts may contain niobium oxide as a two-dimensional niobium oxide overlayer (surface niobia species), an oxide support (niobia-supported surface redox sites), or as mixed oxides (a solid solution or compound of niobium oxide) as shown: 130 At low temperatures, surface niobia redox sites are only present on SiO2, and the surface niobia species on other supports primarily act as acid sites. The addition of surface niobia species to vanadia/titania catalysts does not change the molecular structure or redox properties of the surface vanadia species. However, the surface niobia species may or may not influence the catalysts' activities. Specifically (i) reactions requiring only one surface vanadia redox site are not influenced by the surface niobia species (e.g., methanol oxidation) and (ii) reactions requiring adjacent surface redox and acid sites are enhanced by the surface niobia species (e.g., the SCR reaction). The redox potential of niobia enhances the redox properties of some metal oxide species (V, Cr, Mo, etc.) supported on Nb2O5. The introduction of niobia to mixed oxide catalysts can result in enhanced activity and selectivity (as for example in BiNbO, NbTa systems). 130,131 Wachs et al. 130,132 found that only the surface niobia species on silica give rise to methanol oxidation products (primarily formaldehyde and methylformate) while the surface niobia species on alumina, titania, and zirconia primarily lead to the formation of acidic products (dimethyl ether). Thus, the nature of the oxide support controls the redox properties of the surface niobia species.A metal oxide (i.e.v, V2O5) species can be deposited over a large surface area of a niobia support by reaction of the surface hydroxyls of niobia with vanadium triisopropoxide oxide. A comparison of the reactivities of surface vanadia species loaded on various oxide supports in the methanol oxidation reaction reveals that niobia-supported vanadia species are among the most active catalytic systems for this reaction.132 This high reactivity is associated with facile reduction of the bridging VONb bond and reflects the favorable redox potential of the niobia support as compared to less reducible supports such as silica and alumina. The redox potential of the niobia support also enhances the redox properties of other reducible surface metal oxide species (V, Cr, Mo, and Re).130 The incorporation of niobium (together with silicon) into the lattice of mesoporous molecular sieves of MCM-41 type generates materials with high oxidation properties as evidenced by their very high activity in the oxidation of thioether using hydrogen peroxide. 133 The oxidizing properties of the NbMCM-41 materials are due to the presence of an active lattice oxygen, which is formed during the dehydroxylation of the molecular sieves and can be identified by ESR measurements. The generation of this active oxygen is accompanied by the formation of Lewis acid sites as established by FTIR studies following pyridine and lutidine adsorption.58 When niobium oxide is reduced appropriately, it becomes active in the catalytic isomerization and oligomerization of olefins. This activity is very sensitive to the conditions under which the niobium oxide reduction was carried out and depends on the isolation of a Nb4+ cation from another Nb4+ center. 134
B. Catalytic Activity of Materials Containing Niobium
Niobium compounds and materials are becoming important as catalysts for various reactions, and interest in them is growing. Various types of reactions in which niobium catalysts were studied are described below:
1. Dehydration of Alcohols
Alcohols can be dehydrated either intramolecularly to olefins (eq 5) or intermolecularly to ethers (eq 6). Both processes require the presence of Brnsted acid sites on the catalyst surface. These acid centers participate in the proton transfer, as shown below in the 2-propanol dehydration example: Niobium(V) oxide that has been treated at 373 K is characterized as a very strong Brnsted acid and can be used as a catalyst for Brnsted acid-catalyzed reactions under mild conditions. In fact, niobium oxide exhibits the highest acid strength of all the metal oxides pretreated at 373 K.23 Thus, niobic acid appears to be the most suitable solid acid catalyst for dehydration, since its acidity not only does not decrease but may even increase in some cases upon contact with water vapor.2 Many authors have reported high activities for niobium oxide in the dehydration of 2-propanol, 135 2-butanol,23 cyclopentanol, and cyclohexanol.2 Crystallized niobic acid calcined at 573 K was found to show higher activity in the dehydration of 2-propanol than uncrystallized niobic acid, niobic acid washed with water, or niobic acid treated with sulfuric or phosphoric acid.18 However, it is well-known that treatment at higher temperatures (823 K) causes niobic acid to decompose to a crystalline niobium oxide whereupon it loses its acidic properties and catalytic activity. Both its acidity and activity can be remarkably enhanced by treatment with sulfuric or phosphoric acid though. For example, the surface acidity and the catalytic activity of H3PO4-treated niobic acid are well maintained at temperatures as high as nearly 873 K.34 Niobic acid treated with phosphoric acid is not only active in the intramolecular dehydration of alcohols but also promotes intermolecular dehydration reactions such as the conversion of methanol to dimethyl ether (DME).35 This catalyst is also effective in the synthesis of methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) from tert-butyl alcohol (TBA) and methanol, but the TBA conversion and the selectivity to MTBE are not significantly improved over those obtained using amorphous niobium phosphate, NbOPO4.36 Niobic acid treated with phosphoric acid does produce higher yields of MTB than other metal oxides such as TiO2, ZrO2, Al2O3, SiO2, and SiO2TiO2 (Table 4).
Table 4. Catalytic Activities for the MTBE Synthesis of Niobium Phosphate and the Other Solid Acidsa catalyst TBAconversion (mol%) MTBEselectivity (mol%) niobiumphosphate 82.2 35.5 H3PO4-treatedNb2O5 77.2 33.6 Nb2O5·H2O 0.8 17.5 H3PO4-treatedTiO2 30.6 37.6 TiO2 0 0 H3PO4-treatedZrO2 12.0 32.4 ZrO2 0 0 H3PO4-treatedAl2O3 1.7 8.1 Al2O3 0 0 H3PO4-treatedSiO2 99.2 7.2 SiO2 0 0 solidH3PO4 99.4 5.5 H3PO4-treatedSiO2TiO2 99.3 6.1 aReproduced from ref 35. Copyright 1993 Elsevier Science.
The rate constants for the intra- and intermolecular dehydration of alcohols can be controlled by altering the Nb structures. For example, Nb dimers on SiO2 are active and selective for the dehydration of ethanol and produce the smallest amount of ethene via intramolecular dehydration.90,135 Ethanol decomposition is also observed on nickel ion-exchanged layered potassium niobate, NiK4Nb6O17, and occurs more rapidly than on Nb2O5. The formation of diethyl ether from ethanol predominates on bulk niobium oxide but is not observed on NiK4Nb6O17. The NiK4Nb6O17 has a layered structure consisting of niobium oxide sheets with potassium ions located between the different interlayers. n-Propanol also decomposes with a higher conversion on NiK4Nb6O17 than on Nb2O5 and shows no formation of dipropyl ether. 136 A pillared lanthanumniobium oxide of perovskite type, ALaNb2O7, when combined with TiO2 or ZrO2, exhibits high activity for the dehydration of methanol to DME and of 1-butanol to 1-, cis-2-, and trans-2-butenes. 137 Recently, a new type of solid acid material, a silica pillared lanthanum niobate with a supergallery of 1.74 nm, was investigated using the decomposition of 2-propanol at 573 K as a probe reaction. 138 This material showed complete conversion of the reactant to dehydration products indicating a catalytic activity comparable to that of niobic acid. However, the authors did not report the selectivity among the various products that might have helped in the characterization of the catalyst.
2. Dehydrogenation
The dehydrogenation of long chain paraffins (according to the reaction CnH2n+2  CnH2n + H2  CnH2n-2 + 2H2) is usually performed using alumina- supported bimetallic catalysts. n-Heptane dehydrogenation on Pt/Nb2O5 displayed a higher selectivity for the formation of olefins than did conventional catalysts.112,139,140 Also the formation of aromatics and light products was minimized. The selectivity increased with the platinum content. The same trend was observed for the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane.
Nickel niobate (NiNb2O6) supported on SiO2 showed a TOF (turnover frequency) in the dehydrogenation of cyclohexane to benzene101 similar to that of Pt/Nb2O5 at the highest platinum loading but produced a higher selectivity for benzene (100%). These results demonstrate that selectivity is improved by the NiNb interaction.
3. Oxidative Dehydrogenation
The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes offers an energetically attractive route to the production of alkenes (i.e., RCH2CH3 + O2  RCHCH2 + H2O). Since ethane is the second most major component of natural gas and is also a main product in many methane-coupling reactions, its transformation to ethene at low temperature is of considerable interest. The metal oxide catalyst containing Mo, V, and Nb (Mo16V4Nb2) is more active (10% of conversion at 559 K) and selective (100%) than other mixed-metal oxides (MoV, MoMn, MoTi, etc.).2 Burch and Swarnaka 141 found that a molybdenumvanadiumniobium oxide (Mo:V:Nb = 6:3:1) is highly selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethene. The presence of all three oxides is necessary in order to have an active and selective catalyst. The best results, according to Somorjai et al., 142 have been obtained using a mixture with a MoVNb ratio of 19:5:1. Their studies suggest that the active phase is based on molybdenum and vanadium. Niobium enhances the intrinsic activity of this combination and improves the reaction selectivity by inhibiting the total oxidation of ethane to carbon dioxide.The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane may provide an attractive route to the production of propylene and could be a good alternative to conventional dehydrogenation and cracking processes. Various Nb-containing catalysts were studied for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Smits et al. 143 found that niobium oxide shows a very high selectivity in this reaction although the conversion was very low (Figure 9). The activity of the niobia was improved without diminishing its selectivity by adding other suitable elements (V, Cr, Mo).2 Smits et al.120 found that vanadium and chromium, which occupy unique environments make these catalysts selective for propylene. The influence of various preparation methods on the performance of the VNbO catalysts also was investigated by Smits et al. 144,145 They found that the activity and selectivity of a given vanadium site depends on the nature of its neighboring atoms. Vanadium neighbors promote the activity, while niobium neighbors promote the selectivity. Niobium is much more difficult to reduce than vanadium and this feature improves the selectivity, since facile reduction often causes low selectivity in these reactions. Watling et al.121 examined Nb2O5 supported monolayer V2O5 catalysts and vanadianiobia catalysts with different vanadium oxide loadings and concluded that all the samples show similar TOFs when the rates are normalized for the concentration of V on the surface. The reaction's propene selectivity strongly depends on the nature of the catalysts used because propene's re-adsorption and interaction with the acidic sites leads to total oxidation.Figure 9 Propane conversion and propene selectivity on Nb2O5 calcined at 1125 K. Lines 1 and 3 are for 5% O2; lines 2 and 4 are for 10% O2. (Reproduced with permission from ref 143. Copyright 1991 The Royal Society of Chemistry.) When butane is used as the reactant, the process occurs more readily than when propane and ethane are used. A Nb2O5Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalyst was reported to be active in the formation of 1-butene (0.12 mol fraction), cis-2-butene (0.16), trans-2-butene (0.234), and isobutene (0.48) from butane at 723 K.2
4. Oxidation and Ammoxidation
In recent years much research has focused on the direct partial oxidation of methane to oxygenates (i.e., methanol and formaldehyde), especially methanol, according to Dimethyl ether is also formed as a result of the intermolecular dehydration of methanol.
The direct conversion of methane to methanol has proven to be an extremely demanding reaction, due to the harsh conditions required to activate the methane molecule and the thermodynamic instability of the desired products with respect to the combustion product CO2. Several oxides such as MoO3, Nb2O5, Ta2O5, and WO3 have been shown to catalyze this reaction. Methanol conversion over these materials was high, and the major products were formaldehyde and dimethyl ether. 146 A high selectivity toward CH3OCH3 was induced by surface niobium oxide monolayers on TiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3,23,97 or 1% CrO3 supported on Nb2O5, which possesses the acidity required for the dehydration of methanol to ether.116 The influence of the surface metal oxide and acid species of surface-modified niobium oxide catalysts with low loading (1 wt %) on the catalytic activity and selectivity obtained during methanol oxidation was studied by Jehng et al.108 (Table 5). The niobia's surface phosphate and sulfate species increase the methanol conversion and induce 100% selectivity to the dehydration product CH3OCH3. The WO3/Nb2O5 system was somewhat less active in this reaction than the other metal oxide systems examined. Surface chromium, rhenium, vanadium, and molybdenum oxide species, which enhance the reduction sites on niobia, produced higher selectivities to HCHO, with the V2O5/Nb2O5 system exhibiting the highest activity among these catalysts.Table 5. Catalytic Properties of Methanol Oxidation Reaction over Surface-Modified Niobium Oxide Catalysts at 503 K (All Samples Were Calcined)a selectivity(%) catalysts activity (mmolg-1h-1) HCHO CH3OCH3 (CH3O)2CH2 CO+CO2 Nb2O5 5.8 5 95 1%P2O5/Nb2O5 36.2   100 1%SO42-/Nb2O5 32.0   100 1%CrO3/Nb2O5 41.0 45.3 46.9 4.5 1.0 1%WO3/Nb2O5 10.7   98.3   1.7 1%Re2O7/Nb2O5 8.0 30.4 58.3 5.5 5.8 1%MoO3/Nb2O5 15.0 21.8 69.2 7.5 1.5 1%V2O5/Nb2O5 74.2 61.4 35.2   3.4 aReproduced from ref 108. Copyright 1992 Elsevier Science.Redox products (mainly methyl formate and formaldehyde) are obtained when silica-supported niobium oxide is used to catalyze the methanol oxidation reaction. Jehng et al. 147 found that surface niobium oxide species were partially reduced by reaction environment.The oxidation of higher hydrocarbons were also studied using various catalysts. Ethane was converted to acetic acid with a 63% selectivity and to ethylene with a 14% selectivity in the presence of oxygen at 528 K through the use of a Mo0.7V0.25Nb0.02Sb0.61Ca0.01On catalyst, although the conversion was low (3%).2 The same reaction was studied by Ruth et al. 148 using Mo(73)V(18)Nb(9)O(x) as the catalyst. They found that all phases of the catalyst catalyzed the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethene, while only the Mo6V9O40 phase lead to the formation of acetic acid. Unfortunately, vanadium oxide supported on niobia showed very low activity in the selective oxidation of ethane despite its acidity. 149 The oxidation of butane to maleic anhydride is known to be catalyzed by (VO)2P2O7. The reaction proceeds via the dehydrogenation of butane to butene followed by oxidation of butene: i.e., C4H10  C4H6  C4H4O  C4H2O3 (MA, maleic anhydride). Wachs et al. 150 studied this butane oxidation over a titania-supported vanadium oxide catalyst. The butane and maleic acid TOFs increased by a factor of 4 when an acidic niobium oxide was introduced to the 1% V2O5/TiO2 catalyst. The niobia species coordinate to the surface of the titania support and only interact with surface vanadia species via lateral interactions in the monolayer. Thus, it is the presence of these acidic niobium oxide sites adjacent to the surface vanadia that has a beneficial effect on the butane oxidation TOF and on the maleic anhydride selectivity. Mastuura and co-workers42 found that the VNbPO catalyst exhibits high catalytic activity in the oxidation of butane and butene to maleic anhydride. At a reaction temperature of 673 K, (VO)2P2O7 produced an 88% conversion of butene and a 53% selectivity to MA, while a VNbPO catalyst with a Nb/Nb + V ratio of 0.05 yielded an 88% conversion of butene and a 56% selectivity to MA.Ammoxidation is an important process. Acrylonitrile (H2CCHCN, ACN) is an intermediate used in the preparation of fibers, synthetic resins, synthetic rubbers, etc. Presently, ACN is produced by the ammoxidation of propene in a fluidized-bed reactor using a mixed metal oxide catalyst. VSb, BiMo, PV, VPO, or FeSb mixed oxides, which are commonly used as catalysts, require temperatures of 773 K or higher and give yields of ACN that do not exceed 40%. A new catalyst, a MoVNbTe mixed metal oxide reported by Ushikubo et al. 151 is highly active and selective for this reaction. The efficiency of this catalyst is higher than those of the VSb and BiMo mixed oxide catalysts, and it produces higher yields of ACN at a lower temperature. The feed composition was optimized for this MoVNbTe mixed oxide catalyst by Vaarkamp and Ushikubo. 152 The optimal feed consisted of propane, ammonia, and oxygen in a ratio of 1:1.2:3.The ammoxidation of ethane to acetonitrile is catalyzed fairly well by Nb2O5Sb2O5/Al2O3 with an atomic ratio of Nb/Sb = 5:1. 153 Likewise, the ammoxidation of ethane proceeds with a conversion of about 40% and a selectivity to acetonitrile of 78% in the presence of a Mo1.0V0.4Te0.2Nb0.1On catalyst.2 The ammoxidation of isobutane to methacrylonitrile is catalyzed by the well-known ammoxidation catalyst, Bi2Mo3O12, but with only about a 4% conversion and about a 60% selectivity to methacrylonitrile and methacrolein at 733 K. However, the addition of a niobium compound to this bismuth molybdate, with or without the addition of Fe or Co, increases both the conversion and the selectivity obtained from the reaction. 154
5. Oxidative Coupling of Methane
The addition of niobium oxide to the catalyst enhanced the oxidative coupling of methane (OCM) to C2 species (ethane and ethene) such that Li/MgO promoted by niobium oxide showed a higher activity than pure Li/MgO in the temperature range in which the reaction was studied (ca. 9231003 K). 155 The OCM of methane to higher hydrocarbons also was investigated using two types of semiconductor catalysts, NbO (p-type) and Nb2O5 (n-type), at 1 atm pressure. 156 The results indicated a strong correlation between C2+ selectivity and the electronic properties of the catalyst in terms of p- vs n-type conductivity. The p-type semiconductor catalyst exhibited a higher selectivity (95.92%) than the n-type catalyst (23.08%) at a methane conversion of 0.64%. However, the beneficial effect of p-type conductivity in an OCM catalyst has been emphasized by only a few researchers (i.e., Dubois and Cameron, 157 Norby and Anderson 158). The NbO and Nb2O5 catalysts differ in other parameters besides conductivity, and these other parameters also can affect the selectivity of the catalysts.
Table 6. Catalytic Activity of Amorphous Niobium Phosphate for Various Esterifications with Acetic Acid at 493 Ka conversiontoester(mol%) alcohol liquidphase vaporphase n-C4H9OH 91.5 92.6 iso-C4H9OH 83.6 70.2 s-C4H9OH 82.9 1.0 t-C4H9OH 9.7 0
C2H5OH 80.4
CF3CH2OH 14.4
CH2CHCH2OH 82.3
aReproduced from ref 35. Copyright 1993 Elsevier Science.
6. Esterification
The reaction of alcohols with carboxylic acids to form esters may be performed in either a liquid or a vapor phase in the presence of various acidic or basic catalysts. Among the various solid acid catalysts, niobic acid seems to be the most suitable for esterification reactions, because when hydrated it has a fairly high acid strength and is resistant toward water vapor. According to Chen et al.,125 the esterification of acetic acid with ethanol proceeded at 393 K in the presence of niobic acid heat-treated at 473 K with a 100% selectivity to ester and a 72% conversion. No catalyst deactivation was observed after 60 h of use. The conversion obtained was higher than those of the cation exchanged resin, SiO2Al2O3, and H-ZSM-5.
Niobic acid likewise promoted the esterification of acrylic acid with methanol to form methyl methacrylate (MMA). In this reaction, both a high conversion (95.1%) of acrylic acid and a high yield (95%) of MMA were obtained by decreasing the space velocity and increasing the MeOH/acid molar ratio. 159 The catalytic activity of niobic acid is somewhat increased by treating it with sulfuric acid.18 Furthermore, niobium phosphate showed a fairly high conversion (91.5, 83.6, and 52.9%) in the liquid-phase esterifications of n-butyl, isobutyl, and s-butyl alcohol, respectively, with acetic acid at 493 K.36 It is interesting to note that the catalysts that esterified s-butyl alcohol in the liquid phase did not promote the vapor phase estrification well (Table 6). The liquid-phase esterification of acetic acid with 1-decanol, a long chain alcohol, was catalyzed more effectively by niobic acid than by other strong acids such as SiO2TiO2 and SiO2Al2O3.36
7. Alkylation
The catalysis of organic reactions by inorganic solids is an important new area in preparative organic chemistry. The alkylation of aromatics is an important process in both the petroleum and the chemical industries. Alkylation occurs as the result of a carbenium ion formed from the alkylation agent interacting with the π electrons in the aromatic ring according to Some alkylation reactions in which Nb-containing catalysts were studied are described below. Recently, it was found that niobic acid is active as a catalyst for the alkylation of benzene with methanol and that the catalytic activity is markedly enhanced when the catalyst is treated with a dilute phosphoric acid solution.2 As shown in Table 7, amorphous niobium phosphate promoted the alkylation of benzene with olefins and alcohols. In particular, the phosphate promoted cumene synthesis via the alkylation of benzene with propene.36 Higher conversions of propene (>95%) and benzene (>15%) and a higher selectivity (91%) to cumene were obtained at higher reaction temperatures (>558 K) when the alkylation of benzene with propene was carried out in the liquid phase.
Table 7. Alkylation of Benzene with Various Alcohols and Olefins over Amorphous Niobium Phosphatea alkylationreagent molarratioofalkylation reagentvsbenzene reaction temp(K) benzeneconv. after1h(mol%) selectivityof monoalkylatedproduct(mol%)
(CH3)2CHOH 2.3 623 9.1 82
C2H5OH 1.5 673 3.1 77
CH3OH 2.2 673 5.5 47
CH3CHCH2 2.0 623 17.3 42
(CH3)2CHCH2 2.0 623 3.7 30
CH2CH2 1.5 673 1.5 27
aReproduced from ref 35. Copyright 1993 Elsevier Science.
Niobic acid pretreated with phosphoric acid at 423 K gave a very high conversion of benzyl alcohol (99.2%) during the benzylation of anisole. The same catalyst also was active in the benzylation of toluene, but the conversion of the alcohol was lower.127 Gilbert et al. 160 reported that the vapor-phase alkylation of phenols with methanol proceeds catalytically when carried out on niobium phosphate. The O-alkylation selectivity observed in this reaction decreases with an increase in the reaction temperature. Other alkylations, such as the alkylation of biphenyl with propene or isopropyl alcohol were also studied.2
8. Isomerization
The isomerization of olefins can be referred to cistrans, skeletal, or double bond isomerization. Carbenium ion formation plays an important role in this process and requires a Brnsted acid catalyst. The butene and dimethyl butene isomerization activities of Nb-containing materials are described below.
Nb2O5·nH2O, which was evacuated at 373 K for 2 h, showed remarkable 1-butene isomerization activity with a selectivity (cis-2-butene/trans-2-butene) of less than unity. The activity decreased drastically after the sample was evacuated at 573 K but was almost completely restored upon the introduction of water vapor followed by evacuation at 373 K.23 It is well-known that low ratios of cis/trans-2-butene obtained from the isomerization of 1-butene indicate an acidic catalyst. Therefore, this reaction is often used as a test to monitor the acidity of samples such as niobia aerogels prepared at supercritical drying temperatures.16,20 Hasegawa et al. 161 concluded that Nb2O5 and Nb2O5/Al2O3 both exhibit an induction period prior to the isomerization of 1-butene. The highest activity in this reaction was observed using Nb2O5 (10 wt %) on Al2O3 (68%) as the catalyst.
Similar selectivities were obtained for 3,3-dimethyl-1-butene isomerization using niobium oxide or phosphate, or a USHY zeolite as the catalyst.36 Each of these catalysts underwent a rapid initial deactivation followed by a slower decrease in their activity.
9. Hydrogenolysis
Ethane hydrogenolysis (which is usually catalyzed by group VIII metals) is a typical structure-sensitive reaction, and large ensemble sites are required for high catalyst activity. Therefore, it is interesting to note that RhNbO4 particles exhibit high activity in this process.103 The hydrogenolysis of propane over supported nickel catalysts (Ni/Nb2O5) 162 and the hydrogenolysis of 2-methylbutane and n-pentane over Pt/Nb2O5 or Rh/Nb2O5 have also been reported.110
10. Disproportionation of Hydrocarbons (Methathesis)
The disproportionation of some hydrocarbons has been studied using catalysts that contain niobium oxides either as a support or as a promoter. Methyltrioxorhenium (CH3ReO3) supported on Nb2O5·H2O showed pronounced catalytic activity in the methathesis of cis-2-pentene and 1-pentene. Maximum activity was obtained when the Nb2O5·H2O was evacuated at 473573 K prior to the addition of CH3ReO3. 163 Very promising heterogeneous methathesis catalysts have been developed by anchoring aryloxy tungsten complexes on a NbOx/SiO2 support. The catalytic activity of the WCl4(OC6H3X2-2,6)2/NbOx/SiO2 (X = Br or But) precursors activated by BuiAlCl2 was very high in pent-2-ene (cis + trans) methathesis. 164 The addition of Nb2O5 as a promoter to Re2O7/Al2O3 led to high catalyst activity for 1-hexene methathesis. At higher niobia loadings, however, the catalytic activity quickly decreased. 165
11. Hydrogenation
In FischerTropsch synthesis, which is the hydrogenation of CO with H2 to form hydrocarbons, the activity and selectivity of the metal catalyst are highly sensitive to the nature of its support oxide. When Rh is the catalyst, the support effect decreases in the order Nb2O5 > ZrO2 > Al2O3 > SiO2 > MgO. 166 At 493 K, the conversion of CO on Rh/Nb2O5 was almost 76% in contrast to the negligible conversion (1.4%) obtained over Rh/Al2O3 167 and also higher than on Rh/SiO2.123 In addition to CH4, C2C5 hydrocarbons were obtained when using the Rh/Al2O3 catalyst.
A Ni/Nb2O5 catalyst was also reported to show a much higher conversion than Ni/Al2O32 or Ni/SiO2 in the FischerTropsch reaction.167 Fe/Nb2O5 exhibited a very high conversion and a very good selectivity toward higher hydrocarbons.122 Reducing a Co/Nb2O5 catalyst resulted in improved selectivity toward C5+ compounds combined with a low selectivity toward C1 at 533 K.117 Niobia-supported cobalt catalysts prepared by other authors118 showed very high selectivities toward linear hydrocarbons in the diesel range (C13C18). The addition of Rh in various amounts to Co/Nb2O5 increased its C5+ hydrocarbon selectivity and promoted the formation of oxygenated compounds.119 The short summary presented above clearly indicates the importance of Nb2O5 as a support for various metals that are active in the FischerTropsch synthesis. The choice of metals used in the catalyst controls the formation of the desired hydrocarbons.
12. NO Reduction
The selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of NOx by ammonia has been extensively employed in industry over the past few years for controlling pollution due to nitrous gases. In general, it is accepted that the SCR of nitric oxide is based on the following reaction: Mixed oxides of TiO2, especially V2O5/TiO2, have often been used as catalysts, since the reaction requires the presence of both redox and acidic centers on the catalytic surface. Niobium oxide exhibits a fairly high catalytic activity for NO removal when it is supported on or mixed with TiO2.2 The maximum conversion (97%) of NO on V2O5Nb2O5/TiO2 was observed at 543553 K, while V2O5/TiO2 required higher temperatures (573583 K) to reach this same level of conversion.99 The presence of surface niobia species on titania had a dramatic effect on the catalytic activity and selectivity obtained in the SCR process. The activity at low temperatures increased by approximately an order of magnitude, and the selectivity toward N2 formation at complete conversion of NO was essentially 100%. Although the addition of tungsten oxide (the conventional promoter) to the surface of the titania-supported vanadia catalyst also increased the activity, the presence of the surface tungsten oxide species resulted in a somewhat lower selectivity toward N2 formation at 100% conversion of NO.130 Wachs et al. 168 concluded from their SCR work carried out using vanadia catalysts supported on TiO2, Al2O3, and SiO2 that the reaction proceeds via a dual-site mechanism, involving a surface vanadia redox site and an adjacent surface nonreducible metal oxide site. Such dual sites are generated as the surface coverage of vanadia species increases or through the addition of a promoter such as niobium. Generating dual sites on the surface results in a 510-fold increase in the SCR TOF. The selectivity to N2 in this system depends on the specific oxide support (TiO2 > Al2O3 > SiO2), the temperature (selectivity decreases at higher temperature due to the oxidation of NH3 and NO to N2O), and the surface concentration of redox sites (selectivity decreases as the concentration of pairs of surface redox sites increases, since these lead to N2O formation).Sazonova et al. 169 developed a procedure for preparing VTi oxide SCR catalysts based on local raw materials. Following the addition of tungsten or niobium oxides, these catalysts were studied in sulfur dioxide oxidation and in the selective catalytic reduction of NO by ammonia. Niobium-free catalysts used in the oxidation of SO2 to SO3 showed a considerable decrease in their SCR activity at temperatures below 623 K. Thus, when added to VTi oxide catalysts, niobium oxide suppresses sulfur dioxide oxidation and increases the catalyst's activity in the SCR process. The same behavior was also observed when tungsten was added to the catalysts.Furthermore, it is noteworthy that the addition of Nb2O5 to the most commonly used metal oxide, FeOx, is effective for improving the catalyst's behavior. A small amount (5 at %) of Nb2O5 added to FeOx causes a remarkable enhancement of the SCR activity, such that the conversion reaches 90% at 573 K.1 The catalytic reduction of NO by CO to form CO2 and N2O proceeds at quite a low temperature (300 K) over platinum supported on TiO2 and Nb2O5. The absence of water suppresses N2 formation. The effect of water was most pronounced on the n-type semiconductor form of Nb2O5.111 In the past decade there has been much interest in niobium catalysts (as evidenced by the many new patents on their processes) for the removal of nitrogen oxides, as three-way catalyst materials, 170 and as catalysts for (i) decompositions, 171 (ii) the reduction of nitrogen oxides with hydrocarbons, 172 and (iii) selective catalytic reductions. 173
13. Hydrodesulfurization and Hydrodenitrification
Lower legislative limits on the sulfur content of gasoline are placing higher demands on hydrotreating catalysts. Thus, new active phases that are different from the conventional NiMo or CoMo phases have attracted some interest in the past few years.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 