<quotes>
Bimetallic PtSn catalysts, containing different amounts of tin, were obtained by means of controlled surface reactions and used in the liquid-phase hydrogenation of furfural. All the studied systems allowed to obtain fufuryl alcohol with high selectivity (9698%).

When used in consecutive hydrogenation reactions, the bimetallic catalysts showed a certain deactivation (25% between the first and third cycle), but still they were very selective to furfuryl alcohol. The most efficient system was the catalyst with the lowest tin content (PtSn0.3).

The hydrogenation of furfural has been carried out in either liquid or vapor phase. The industrial process is conducted at high temperature and pressure, employing a CuCr catalyst, which exhibits a moderate activity towards furfuryl alcohol.

Nonalcoholic and non-polar solvents caused a drastic activity decrease.

In this paper, we propose the systematic study of the effect of tin content on the activity, selectivity and stability of Pt/SiO2 catalysts modified with SnBu4 that are employed in the liquid-phase hydrogenation of furfural to furfuryl alcohol.

The results of conversion as a function of reaction time for the hydrogenation of furfural, using 2-propanol as solvent, are reported in Fig. 2. From the analysis of this figure it can be seen that PtSn systems have a higher activity than the corresponding monometallic catalyst.

All the catalysts used are highly selective to the desired product, furfuryl alcohol. In addition, tin-modified catalysts allowed obtaining higher conversions than the Pt/SiO2 catalyst (Fig. 2).

The study of the stability of the catalysts used in the hydrogenation of furfural in 2-propanol showed that, although there is some deactivation in all the systems, the catalyst PtSn0.3 gave a high level of conversion after three reaction cycles. Besides, the selectivity to unsaturated alcohol was kept during the three hydrogenation cycles.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The bimetallic PtSn catalysts, especially those with the lowest tin content, show high selectivity and efficiency in the hydrogenation of furfural to furfuryl alcohol. These catalysts allow achieving a high yield of furfuryl alcohol, with selectivities ranging from 96% to 98%. 

2. The bimetallic PtSn catalysts exhibit some deactivation over multiple cycles, but the PtSn0.3 catalyst maintains a high level of conversion and selectivity to furfuryl alcohol, even after three consecutive hydrogenation cycles. This suggests that the PtSn0.3 catalyst might have better stability compared to other PtSn catalysts.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. PtSn双金属催化剂，特别是含锡量最低的催化剂，在糠醛氢化为糠醇的过程中表现出高选择性和效率。这些催化剂能够实现高产率的糠醇，选择性范围在96%至98%之间。

2. PtSn双金属催化剂在多轮氢化反应中会表现出一定的失活，但PtSn0.3催化剂在三次氢化循环后仍能保持较高的转化率和糠醇的选择性。这表明PtSn0.3催化剂可能具有更好的稳定性，与其它PtSn催化剂相比。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
