<quotes>
[1] "The role of the oxide phase of oxide-supported metal catalysts in the course of catalytic reactions has been associated with a number of different effects, amongst them are: providing a high-area support for the stabili- sation of the metal phase in the form of small particles; influencing the metal phase via electronic interactions;or providing special reaction sites at the metal-oxide phase boundary."
[2] "A particularly drastic interaction phenomenon between the oxide and the metal phase has been reported in the form of the so-called strong metal support interaction (SMSI) effect."
[3] "The encapsulation of metal particles by a migrating reduced oxide phase of the carrier is associated with an interesting materials trans- port problem across the catalyst surface."
[4] "The inverse catalyst is a metal surface, preferably a single crystal surface, which is decorated by oxide nanostruc- tures."
[5] "Specifically, we will discuss the geometric structure of vanadium oxide decorated Rh(111) and Pd(111) sur- faces as probed by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and present the local electronic structure of dif- ferent oxide phases as measured by scanning tunneling spectroscopy (STS)."
[6] "The mass transport problem of oxide migration across a catalyst surface will be addressed."
[7] "In this paper we will concentrate on the structural and electronic characterisation of metal supported oxide * To whom correspondence should be addressed."
[8] "The exact geometry of this so-called surface-V2O3 phase [12] has been quantified in previous work by X-ray photoelectron diffraction and LEED I(V) analysis [23,24]."
[9] "As a second example of the reduction of inverse catalysts we present the case of the (7 · 7)R19 vanadium oxide-Rh(111) surface."
[10] "Before considering the question of the mass transport let us briefly comment on the chemical aspect of this reduction sequence."
[11] "The question we wish to address here is why do these different structures form on the two metals one would expect to behave similarly."
[12] "We notice that the (4 · 4) V-oxide on Pd(111) contains somewhat less oxygen than the 7 phase on Rh(111) (VO2.8 versus VO3, respectively), but closer inspection of the structures also reveals that the (4 · 4) phase has less metal-oxygen bonding at the interface."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The oxide phase of oxide-supported metal catalysts can stabilize the metal phase in the form of small particles, influence the metal phase through electronic interactions, and provide special reaction sites at the metal-oxide phase boundary.

2. Strong metal support interaction (SMSI) effect has been reported, which involves encapsulation of metal particles by a migrating reduced oxide phase.

3. Materials transport problem across the catalyst surface occurs due to oxide migration.

4. Inverse catalysts are metal surfaces decorated with oxide nanostructures.

5. The geometric structure of vanadium oxide on Rh(111) and Pd(111) surfaces and the local electronic structure are discussed.

6. The mass transport problem, specifically oxide migration, is addressed.

7. The paper focuses on the structural and electronic characterization of metal-supported oxide nanostructures.

8. The geometry of the surface-V2O3 phase has been quantified through previous X-ray photoelectron diffraction and LEED I(V) analysis.

9. The reduction process of the (7 · 7)R19 vanadium oxide-Rh(111) surface is discussed as a second example.

10. The chemical aspects of the reduction sequence of inverse catalysts are briefly commented on.

11. The reasons for the formation of different structures on Rh(111) and Pd(111) substrates are explored.

12. The (4 · 4) V-oxide on Pd(111) has less oxygen and metal-oxygen bonding at the interface compared to the 7 phase on Rh(111).
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 氧化物支持金属催化剂中的氧化物相与催化反应过程中的多种效应相关，包括提供高面积支持以稳定金属相形成小颗粒、通过电子相互作用影响金属相以及在金属-氧化物相边界提供特殊反应位点。

2. 特别报道了氧化物和金属相之间的强烈相互作用现象，即所谓的强金属支撑相互作用（SMSI）效应。 

3. 氧化物封装金属颗粒的过程伴随着催化剂表面的材料运输问题。

4. 反向催化剂是一种单晶表面，其上装饰有氧化物纳米结构。

5. 讨论了在扫描隧道显微镜（STM）下探针的钒氧化物装饰的Rh(111)和Pd(111)表面的几何结构，并测量了不同氧化物相的局部电子结构。

6. 解决了氧化物迁移导致的催化剂表面的材料运输问题。

7. 本文重点探讨了金属支持氧化物纳米结构的结构和电子特性。

8. 表面-V2O3相的几何形状已经通过先前的X射线光电子衍射和LEED I(V)分析量化。

9. 钒氧化物-Rh(111)表面的减少过程作为第二个例子进行了讨论。

10. 简要评论了反向催化剂减少序列的化学方面。

11. 探讨了为什么这些结构在预期行为相似的两种金属上形成不同。

12. 在Pd(111)上的(4 · 4) V-氧化物具有较少的氧和金属-氧键合于界面，与Rh(111)上的7相相比。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
