<quotes>
[1] "The objective of the research reported here was to study the chemical-physical and catalytic properties in dehydrogenation of isobutane of catalysts prepared by supporting means of chromium oxide on commercial alumina, both in the presence and in the absence of potassium as the dopant."
[2] "The nature of chromium species in calcined catalysts was determined as the difference between the Cr61 and the total chromium loaded."
[3] "The amount of crystalline a-Cr2O3 and of undetected Cr31 oxide (determined by difference between the overall amount of Cr31 oxide, determined by titration, and the amount of crystalline a-Cr2O3, determined by X-ray diffraction) is also reported in Fig. 1."
[4] "The amount of grafted Cr61 determined at 6008C was proportional to the surface area, and was in any case lower than the amount that would theoretically be necessary to complete the coverage of the alumina surface."
[5] "For even higher CrO3 contents, the increase in this species was much less marked."
[6] "For overall CrO3 loadings higher than 4 wt%, Cr31 was also found, and its content increased linearly with increasing chromium oxide loading."
[7] "Also reported in Fig. 1 is the value obtained by first treating the calcined 15.3 wt% CrO3 catalyst with water, in order to remove the soluble Cr61 selectively, and then calcining the catalyst again at 6008C. The amount of soluble Cr61 was restored at the expense of the Cr31 species, which correspondingly decreased by a similar amount."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The research aimed to investigate the chemical, physical, and catalytic properties of isobutane dehydrogenation catalysts, focusing on chromium oxide supported on commercial alumina, both in the presence and absence of potassium as a dopant. The nature of chromium species was determined by comparing the total chromium loaded with the Cr61 component.

2. The amount of chromium species in calcined catalysts was quantified through the difference between the Cr61 species and the total chromium content.

3. The study revealed the presence of crystalline a-Cr2O3 and undetected Cr31 oxide, the latter being determined by subtracting the crystalline a-Cr2O3 amount from the total Cr31 oxide determined through titration.

4. The grafted Cr61 species' amount was found to be proportional to the surface area of the catalyst, and it was always less than the theoretical amount needed to cover the entire alumina surface.

5. As the chromium oxide loading increased, the increase in the soluble Cr61 species became less pronounced.

6. For catalysts with higher chromium oxide loadings exceeding 4 wt%, Cr31 was identified, and its concentration increased linearly with the chromium oxide loading.

7. Treating the 15.3 wt% CrO3 catalyst with water to selectively remove soluble Cr61 led to a restoration of this species, at the cost of Cr31, which consequently decreased by a similar amount.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 研究旨在研究在商业氧化铝上支持的铬氧化物催化剂的化学、物理和催化性质，重点是钾作为掺杂剂的有无。确定了铬物种的性质通过比较加载的总铬与Cr61成分。

2. 通过比较Cr61物种和总铬含量，量化了煅烧催化剂中的铬物种量。

3. 研究揭示了结晶a-Cr2O3和未检测到的Cr31氧化物的存在，后者通过从滴定法确定的总Cr31氧化物中减去由X射线衍射确定的结晶a-Cr2O3量来确定。

4. 沾附的Cr61物种的量发现与其催化剂的表面积成正比，并且总是少于理论上需要覆盖整个氧化铝表面的量。

5. 随着铬氧化物负载的增加，可溶性Cr61物种的增加变得不那么明显。

6. 对超过4 wt%的铬氧化物负载的催化剂，发现了Cr31，并且其浓度随铬氧化物负载呈线性增加。

7. 通过水处理15.3 wt% CrO3催化剂以选择性地去除可溶性Cr61，然后再次在600°C下煅烧催化剂，恢复了这种物种，同时Cr31相应减少了相似的量。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
