Dioxygen activation routes in Mars-van Krevelen redox cycles catalyzed
by metal oxides
Stephanie Kwon a, Prashant Deshlahra b, Enrique Iglesia a,⇑
a Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720, United States
b Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Tufts University, Medford, MA 02155, United States
a r t i c l e
i n f o
Article history:
Received 23 February 2018
Revised 23 April 2018
Accepted 17 May 2018
Keywords:
Oxidative dehydrogenation
Redox cycle
Oxidation catalysis
Dioxygen activation
Density functional theory
Polyoxometalate
Epoxidation
a b s t r a c t
Catalytic redox cycles involve dioxygen activation via peroxo (OO⁄) or H2O2 species, denoted as inner-
sphere and outer-sphere routes respectively, for metal-oxo catalysts solvated by liquids. On solid oxides,
O2 activation is typically more facile than the reduction part of redox cycles, making kinetic inquiries dif-
ﬁcult at steady-state. These steps are examined here for oxidative alkanol dehydrogenation (ODH) by
scavenging OO⁄ species with C3H6 to form epoxides and by energies and barriers from density functional
theory. Alkanols react with O-atoms (O⁄) in oxides to form vicinal OH pairs that eliminate H2O to form
OO⁄ at O-vacancies formed or react with O2 to give H2O2. OO⁄ reacts with alkanols to re-form O⁄ via steps
favored over OO⁄ migrations, otherwise required to oxidize non-vicinal vacancies. C3H6 epoxidizes by
reaction with OO⁄ with rates that increase with C3H6 pressure, but reach constant values as all OO⁄ spe-
cies react with C3H6 at high C3H6/alkanol ratios. Asymptotic epoxidation/ODH rate ratios are smaller than
unity, because outer-sphere routes that shuttle O-atoms via H2O2(g) are favored over endoergic vacancy
formation required for inner-sphere routes. The relative contributions of these two routes are inﬂuenced
by H2O, because vacancies, required to form OO⁄, react with H2O to form OH pairs and H2O2. OO⁄-
mediated routes and epoxidation become favored at low coverages of reduced centers, prevalent for less
reactive alkanols and lower alkanol/O2 ratios, because H2O2 then reacts preferentially with O⁄ (forming
OO⁄), instead of vacancies (forming O⁄/H2O). Such kinetic shunts between two routes compensate for
lower barriers required to form H2O2 than OO⁄. These re-oxidation routes prefer molecular donor
(H2O2) or acceptor (alkanol) to perform stepwise two-electron oxidations by dioxygen, instead of kinet-
ically demanding O-atom migrations. The quantitative descriptions, derived from theory and experiment
on Mo-based polyoxometalate clusters with known structures, bring together the dioxygen chemistry in
liquid-phase oxidations, including electro-catalysis and monooxygenase enzymes, and oxide surfaces
into a common framework, while suggesting a practical process for epoxidation by kinetically coupling
with ODH reaction.
 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) and the selective oxida-
tion or epoxidation of organic molecules provide essential routes
to convert undervalued streams into marketable chemicals of
higher values [1,2]. ODH reactions proceed via Mars-van Krevelen
catalytic cycles on reducible metal oxides; these cycles couple the
reduction and the re-oxidation of the oxide catalyst via sequences
such as the one depicted in Scheme 1 [3,4]. The reduction part
involves the abstraction of H-atoms from organic substrates by
lattice O-atoms (O*) and typically limits ODH turnover rates for
alkane [4–7] and alkanol [8,9] reactants. These reduction steps
form two-electron reduced centers consisting of vicinal hydroxyl
groups (H/OH*), which can dehydroxylate and lead to reduced cen-
ters in the form of O-vacancies (*) in the oxide lattice; both types of
reduced centers can react with O2 to re-form oxidized centers (O*),
thus completing a catalytic turnover. Re-oxidation steps are fast
and thus kinetically-irrelevant in most catalytic oxidations, but
can
inﬂuence
the
selectivity
of
these
reactions,
because
O2-derived intermediates formed during re-oxidation steps can
react with organic reactants or products to form undesired side
products [10,11]. They are also of fundamental interest in electro-
catalysis [12–14] and monooxygenase enzyme systems [15–18],
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2018.05.016
0021-9517/ 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
⇑Corresponding author.
E-mail address: iglesia@berkeley.edu (E. Iglesia).
Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Catalysis
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jcat
which use activated forms of O2-derived species in the epoxidation
of alkenes and the selective oxidation of alkanes.
The fast nature of these re-oxidation pathways renders their
dynamics inaccessible to direct experimental inquiry from the
kinetic behavior of steady-state ODH catalysis [3]. Re-oxidation
rate constants can be indirectly probed through their in-situ UV–
visible spectra during the transient formation and consumption
of reduced centers in response to changes in reductant to oxidant
ratios in the reactant streams [19]. Previous studies of propane
ODH on supported VOx-based catalysts indicate that re-oxidation
ﬁrst-order rate constants are 103–105 times larger than for the
kinetically-relevant reduction steps [19]; as a result, reduced cen-
ters are present as minority species during ODH catalysis, consis-
tent with the observed insensitivity of ODH rates to O2 pressure
[5–9]. The low surface densities of two-electron reduced centers
[19] and their energetically-unfavorable pairing [11] lead to the
isolation
of
such
centers
during
ODH
reactions.
Their
re-
oxidation by a four-electron oxidant such as O2 thus requires the
kinetic coupling of two elementary events, each involving one O-
atom (and two electrons). Such coupling requires, in turn, the
migration of one of the O-atoms in O2, either via lattice diffusion
or via molecular carriers, to react with another reduced center or
the decomposition of the O2-derived species via reactions with
gas-phase reductants, a requirement imposed by the prevalence
of reduced centers that reside at distances
beyond atomic
dimensions.
Mechanistic proposals for re-oxidation steps typically invoke
bound peroxo (OO*) intermediates formed via O2 activation at O-
vacancies (*) with concurrent two-electron re-oxidation of the
reduced centers [11,20]. Several sequential diffusional hops by
one O-atom in the OO* intermediates formed can bring OO* species
near another O-vacancy (*) and re-oxidize the reduced center (*) to
form another lattice O-atom (O*), thus completing the required
four-electron re-oxidation process using O2 [11,20]. Such steps
involve the cleavage and formation of metal-oxygen (MAO) bonds,
in processes that have been denoted ‘‘inner sphere” O2 activation
routes in homogeneous systems [14,21,22]. Peroxo-type (OO*) spe-
cies exhibit detectable UV–visible [23] and Raman [24] features
that have been detected during the re-oxidation of reduced
CeO2-based solids by O2. The detection of bound OO* species, how-
ever, is infeasible during ODH catalysis, because reduced centers
and O2-derived species are present as minority bound species
[3,25].
An alternate ‘‘outer sphere” O2 activation mechanism circum-
vents the need for MAO bond cleavage by effecting re-oxidation
through coupled proton-electron-transfer from reduced centers
(H/OH*) to O2(g) to form H2O2 [12,14,26,27]. Such routes lead to
the appearance of the 17O-atoms in 17O2(g) within H2O2 and H2O
molecules, but not in WAO bonds, during the re-oxidation of aque-
ous W-polyoxometalate anions [14]. The relative contributions of
inner and outer O2 activation routes are quite consequential for
alkane
ODH
selectivity
because
peroxo
(OO*)
intermediates,
involved in inner sphere O2 activation routes, can mediate O-
insertion reactions and convert primary alkene products to reac-
tive epoxides that can undergo fast subsequent oxidation to CO
and CO2 [10,11,28,29]. The involvement of OO* species in the re-
oxidation steps in Mars-van Krevelen ODH cycles and their role
in determining product selectivities, however, remain speculative
and, for the most part, inaccessible to direct experimental inquiries
[10,11].
Here, we provide experimental and theoretical evidence for par-
allel inner and outer sphere O2 activation routes during re-
oxidation of reduced Mo-based Keggin-type polyoxometalate
(POM) clusters and for the presence of OO* species. Such species
form during the re-oxidation part of Mars-van Krevelen redox
cycles and react with alkenes in O-insertion epoxidation reactions.
The contributions of these parallel re-oxidation routes are quanti-
tatively assessed by scavenging the OO* species with C3H6 during
alkanol ODH catalysis and by density functional theory (DFT) treat-
ments of the relevant intermediates and transition states. Mo-
based POM clusters are chosen here as exemplary catalysts
because their well-known structure minimizes model uncertain-
ties in benchmarking theory and experiment [3,30], but the meth-
ods applied in this work seem general for other redox active metal
oxides that involve parallel inner and outer sphere O2 activation
routes. CH3OH and C2H5OH dehydrogenation are used as illustra-
tive reactions to form reduced centers, leading to the conclusion
that the number, but not the type, of reduced centers depends on
the identity and reactivity of the reductants. The analysis and evi-
dence shown here also demonstrate that re-oxidation occurs via
inner and outer sphere routes that exhibit much lower activation
barriers than conventional mechanisms mediated by diffusional
hops of an O-atom in OO* intermediates. The combined use of
experiment and theory shown in this work provides a method to
investigate the kinetic networks for re-oxidation of reduced metal
oxides via heterogeneous O2 activation routes and their connec-
tions to homogeneous oxidation catalysis and electro-catalytic
and enzymatic systems. These alkanol ODH and alkene epoxidation
reactions also uncover a strategy to kinetically couple ODH and
epoxidation reactions to form two valuable products, without
requiring expensive oxidants such as H2O2 molecules that convert
to H2O as a sacriﬁcial reaction [29,31].
2. Methods
2.1. Experimental methods
Supported Mo-based Keggin-type POM clusters (H3PMo12O40)
were prepared by incipient wetness method using SiO2 (Cab-O-
Sil; 304 m2 g1; 1.5 cm3 g1 pore volume) as a mesoporous sup-
port. SiO2 support was rinsed three times with 1 M HNO3 (10
cm3 g-SiO2
1) to remove any impurities and then treated in ﬂowing
dry air (UHP Praxair, 0.83 cm3 g1 s1) at 383 K for 12 h and at 573
K for 5 h before impregnation with aqueous solutions of H3PMo12-
O40 (99.99%, Sigma-Aldrich) to give samples with 25.4% wt. POM,
corresponding to a surface density of 0.4 POM nm2. Impregnated
samples were kept in closed vials at ambient temperature for 24 h
and then treated in ﬂowing He (99.999%, Praxair, 0.83 cm3 g1 s1)
at 323 K for 24 h. The powders were then pressed into pellets,
crushed, and sieved to retain 106–180 lm aggregates. Transmis-
sion electron microscopy showed that POM clusters after synthesis
(and also after CH3OH ODH reactions) were predominantly present
Scheme 1. A Mars-van Krevelen redox cycle involving the reduction of lattice
O-atoms (O*) in Mo-based oxide domains via alkanol dehydrogenation steps and
re-oxidation of reduced centers (H/OH*) via O2 activation steps.
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
229
as isolated clusters with two-dimensional structures present only
as minority species [3]; their intact Keggin structure was con-
ﬁrmed by 31P NMR [3].
C3H6 and CH3OH consumption rates and product selectivities
were measured on samples (0.05–0.15 g) held within a U-shaped
tubular quartz reactor (4 mm inner diameter). The inlet molar rates
of O2 (99.999% or 25% O2/He, Praxair), He (99.999%, Praxair) and
C3H6 (99.95%, Praxair) were metered electronically by mass ﬂow
controllers (Porter Instrument) in order to maintain desired reac-
tant concentrations and residence times. Liquid CH3OH (99.9%,
Fisher Scientiﬁc), C2H5OH (99.5% anhydrous, Sigma-Aldrich), and
H2O (doubly-distilled and deionized) were delivered to the reac-
tant streams using syringe pumps (Cole Parmer, 60,061 Series)
by vaporizing the liquids at 393 K into the ﬂowing gas stream
(O2/He or O2/He/C3H6).
Reaction temperatures were maintained using a resistively-
heated furnace equipped with an electronic controller (Watlow,
Series 988) and were measured with a K-type thermocouple
(Omega) placed at a dimple on the outer wall of the quartz reactor.
Temperatures of all transfer lines were kept above 393 K in order
to prevent condensation of reactants or products. Before contact
with reactants, samples were treated in O2-H2O (20 kPa O2 and 2
kPa H2O; 0.8 cm3 s1) during temperature ramp (0.083 K s1) and
for 0.5 h after reaching reaction temperature (453 K). The reactor
efﬂuent was analyzed by gas chromatography using a methyl sili-
cone capillary column (HP-1, 25 m  0.32 mm  1.05 lm) con-
nected to a ﬂame ionization detector (Agilent 6890 GC) and
Poraplot Q and Mol Sieve 5A columns connected to a thermal con-
ductivity detector (Agilent 3000A).
Mo-POM (H3PMo12O40) clusters contain protons (H+) that act as
Brønsted acids and lattice O-atoms (O*) that act as redox sites.
Reactions of alkanols (CH3OH or C2H5OH) and O2 mixtures form
dehydration products on the acid sites and dehydrogenation prod-
ucts on the redox sites (Scheme S1, Supporting Information) [3].
The POM protons were irreversibly titrated with NH3 (1%, Praxair)
at 453 K using NH3-pulses (4 lmol per pulse; He as a carrier gas,
1.6 cm3 s1) during alkanol-O2-H2O reactions (4 kPa alkanol, 20
kPa O2, 2 kPa H2O) in order to focus this study on redox properties
of Mo-POM, without the molecular complexity and side reactions
brought forth by the formation of ethers or alkenes via acid catal-
ysis. NH3 pulses were introduced until alkanol dehydration rates
became undetectable (< 0.1% of initial rates), indicative of the
essential removal of Brønsted acid sites. The changes in dehydra-
tion and dehydrogenation rates as a function of NH3 doses are
shown in Supporting Information (Fig. S1). These NH3-titrated
samples were used for all alkanol-O2 reactions with and without
C3H6 co-reactants after removal of all traces of NH3(g) with He
(1.6 cm3 s1) for 0.2 h. These samples are hereinafter denoted as
NH4-POM. Dehydration rates on NH4-POM remained at nearly
undetectable levels throughout all experiments, as expected from
the strong binding of NH3 at POM protons at 453 K. For compar-
ison, CH3OH ODH rates were also measured on H-POM samples
with acidic protons.
CH3OH, C2H5OH, and C3H6 conversions were kept below 3% to
maintain constant axial concentrations along the bed and to min-
imize any effects of the H2O formed on rates or selectivities. No
conversion of alkanols or C3H6 was detected on the SiO2 support.
No detectable amounts of CO and CO2 were formed at any of the
reaction conditions used. CH3OH ODH turnover rates (rODH; per
POM cluster) are deﬁned as the sum of formaldehyde (HCHO),
methylformate (MF) and dimethoxymethane (DMM) molar forma-
tion rates (rODH = rHCHO + rMF + rDMM), because MF and DMM are
formed as secondary products, each from one HCHO molecule
(detailed pathways in Scheme S1) [8]. The ODH product selectivity
to HCHO on NH4-POM remained high (> 60%) at typical reaction
conditions (Fig. S2). Acetaldehyde was the only product of
C2H5OH ODH reactions and C2H5OH ODH rates are reported as
acetaldehyde molar formation rates. C3H6 epoxidation rates (rEpox;
per POM cluster) are reported as the sum of the formation rates of
propene epoxide (PE) and acetone (Ace) (rEpox = rPE + rAce), because
acetone is formed only via secondary isomerization of propene
oxide [32] in the absence of co-fed H2O (residence time studies dis-
cussed in Section 3.2).
2.2. Computational methods
Plane-wave DFT calculations were performed using Perdew-
Wang exchange-correlation functionals (PW91) [33] within the
generalized gradient approximation (GGA) as implemented in the
Vienna ab initio simulation package (VASP) [34–36]. The valence-
core interactions were represented by projector-augmented wave
(PAW) methods [37,38], and integer band occupancies were spec-
iﬁed in all calculations to properly capture localized-orbital nature
of bands for non-periodic system (POM clusters) in periodic plane-
wave calculations. An energy cutoff of 400 eV was used to create
the plane-wave basis set and a Monkhorst-Pack [39] k-point sam-
pling of 1  1  1 was used. Electronic structures were minimized
self-consistently until the energies between iteration steps differed
by less than 1  106 eV and forces on all atoms were less than
0.05 eV Å1.
The structures and energies of Keggin POM clusters, bound
intermediates and transition states on POM clusters, and gaseous
molecules were calculated by placing them at the center of 2  2
 2 nm cubic cell in order to avoid interactions among adsorbates
or transition states in adjacent cells; larger cubic cells (3  3  3
nm) gave the same value for CH3OH adsorption energies on O*
sites. The central P atom in each POM cluster was ﬁxed to prevent
net translation of structures, but all other atoms were relaxed dur-
ing geometry and energy optimizations. Long-range interactions
among atoms located in neighboring unit cells were corrected
using dipole and quadrupole moments calculated by taking the
center of the unit cell as the center of charge distributions [40].
The lowest energy electronic structures for each reaction interme-
diate were determined by comparing energies obtained with
singlet (spin-restricted and spin-polarized) and triplet spin multi-
plicities. The minimum energy paths (MEPs) connecting reaction
intermediates were obtained using nudged elastic band (NEB)
methods [41] with structures converged to energies within
1  105 eV and forces within 0.1 eV Å1. The NEB calculations
were performed on both singlet and triplet potential energy sur-
faces to identify crossing points of the MEP connecting intermedi-
ates of different multiplicities. The structures near the maximum of
an MEP or at the crossing points were used to locate the transition
states using the Henkelman’s Dimer method [42] with the conver-
gence criteria of <1  107 eV for energies and <0.05 eV Å1 for
forces on atoms. Transition state searches near the spin-crossing
points were performed in an open-shell singlet state using Dimer
calculations, and their energies were compared to those for the sin-
glet (closed-shell) and triplet states.
Vibrational frequencies were calculated by diagonalizing the
Hessian matrix of second derivatives of the energy with respect
to atomic positions in order to estimate their contribution to ther-
modynamic properties of intermediates and transition states.
Enthalpies and free energies include contributions from electronic
energies (E0), zero-point vibrational energies (ZPVE) and ﬁnite
temperature contributions from vibrations and, for gaseous spe-
cies, translations and rotations;
H ¼ E0 þ ZPVE þ Hvib þ Htrans þ Hrot
ð1Þ
G ¼ E0 þ ZPVE þ Gvib þ Gtrans þ Grot
ð2Þ
230
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
Low-frequency modes (less than 150 cm1) of weakly bound
adsorbates and transition states lead to signiﬁcant errors in entro-
pies and free energies, and therefore, their contributions are
instead substituted by a fraction (0.7) of the translational and rota-
tional entropies of relevant gas phase molecules [43], unless other-
wise stated.
DFT-derived free energies are used to estimate kinetic constants
for elementary steps using the formalism of transition state theory;
k ¼ kBT
h
exp
DGz
RT
 
!
ð3Þ
where DG represents the difference in free energies between the
transition state (TS) and its relevant precursor. kB is Boltzmann’s
constant, h is Planck’s constant, and R is the gas constant. Thermo-
dynamic constants of equilibrated steps are related to their stan-
dard free energy changes for the reaction (DG£);
K ¼ exp
DG£
RT
 
!
ð4Þ
3. Results and discussion
3.1. CH3OH-O2 reactions on H-POM and NH4-POM
CH3OH ODH rates increased linearly with CH3OH pressure (<1
kPa CH3OH) on both H-POM and NH4-POM (i.e., before and after
titration of protons by NH3), but became less sensitive to CH3OH
pressure with increasing pressure (0.1–4 kPa; 453 K; Fig. 1a).
ODH rates were independent of O2 pressure at all O2 pressures
(1–35 kPa; 453 K; Fig. 1b). These trends are consistent with those
in previous studies [3,9] and with H-abstraction from adsorbed
CH3OH by lattice O-atoms (O*) as the sole kinetically-relevant step
in ODH turnovers (step 2; Scheme 2); such turnovers are com-
pleted by fast re-oxidation steps.
This mechanistic proposal is consistent with the rate equation
[3];
rODH ¼
k
0
ODHPCH3OH
1 þ KCH3OHPCH3OH
ð5Þ
Here, KCH3OH denotes the equilibrium constant for molecular
adsorption of CH3OH onto O* (step 1a; Scheme 2) and depends
on the free energy of CH3OH adsorbed on O* (CH3OH-O*) with
respect to its CH3OH(g) and O* precursors. The k0ODH (=kODHKCH3OH)
Fig. 1. CH3OH ODH rates (per POM-ks) measured from CH3OH-O2 mixtures on H-POM (N) and NH4-POM (r) at 453 K as a function of (a) CH3OH pressure (0.1–4 kPa) at 20
kPa O2 and (b) O2 pressure (1–35 kPa) at 4 kPa CH3OH. Dashed curves represent the best regression ﬁts to the functional form of Eq. (5).
Scheme 2. Proposed elementary steps for adsorptions of gaseous species and
CH3OH dehydrogenation on lattice O-atoms (O*) in Mo-based NH4-POM clusters.
Quasi-equilibrated steps are denoted by oval symbols superimposed over double
arrows. Nomenclatures for reaction intermediates are shown in parentheses under
each structure.
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
231
term is the ﬁrst-order rate constant for CH3OH ODH on O* and
reﬂects the free energy of a kinetically-relevant H-abstraction TS
(step 2; Scheme 2) with respect to its CH3OH(g) and O* precursors.
The two denominator terms reﬂect the relative coverages of O* and
CH3OH-O*. ODH rates become zero-order in CH3OH at high CH3OH
pressures, indicative of a shift from O* to CH3OH-O* as the most
abundant surface intermediate (MASI) with increasing CH3OH
pressure. The functional form of Eq. (5) accurately describes mea-
sured CH3OH ODH rates (Fig. 1) and the regression of these data to
the functional form of Eq. (5) gives the k0ODH and KCH3OH values on
these catalysts (Table S1, SI).
Measured k0ODH values were ten-fold smaller on NH4-POM (0.5
± 0.1 (kPa POM ks)1) than on H-POM (5 ± 1 (kPa POM ks)1), as a
result of a decrease in the H-atom abstraction ability of lattice O-
atoms (O*) when the replacement of H+ with NH4
+ leads to a
higher electron density in the oxide clusters [3]. Such H-atom
abstraction ability of O* is determined by the stability of *OAH
bonds that are nearly formed at the H-abstraction TS [3,9]; the
strength of these *OAH bonds is given by DFT-derived H-atom
addition energy (HAE) (detailed calculation methods described
in SI, Section S2) [3]. Reactivity-averaged HAE values (hHAEi) [3]
over all accessible O-atoms in POM clusters become less negative
upon titration of protons by NH3 (303 kJ mol1 on H-POM and
292 kJ mol1 on NH4-POM; Table S1, SI), consistent with O-
atoms that are weaker H-abstractors in NH4-POM than in H-
POM clusters and with the lower ODH turnover rates observed
on NH4-POM clusters.
DFT treatments of intermediates and transition states in the
reduction (Scheme 2) and re-oxidation (Scheme 3) sequences of
elementary steps were carried out at a speciﬁc location within
the POM clusters, consisting of a vicinal bridging O-atoms pair
(Ob1 and Ob2; atom locations indicated in Fig. 2) that exhibits one
of the most negative HAE values. Such values make this pair a
likely location for ODH turnovers [3]. The shift in hHAEi toward less
negative values upon replacement of H+ with NH4
+ (303 to 292
kJ mol1) leads to increase in DFT-derived free energy barriers for
the kinetically-relevant H-abstraction step (step 2; Scheme 2) from
111 to 139 kJ mol1 (453 K, 1 bar CH3OH; Table S1). Measured
KCH3OH values were similar on H and NH4 forms of POM clusters
(0.8 ± 0.3 kPa1 and 0.4 ± 0.1 for H-POM and NH4-POM, respec-
tively; Table S1). Their similar and near unity values are consistent
with DFT-derived CH3OH adsorption free energies, which were 1
and 2 kJ mol1 on Ob1 in H-POM and NH4-POM, respectively (453
K, 1 bar CH3OH; Table S1).
ODH rates were not affected by O2 pressure (Fig. 1b), reﬂecting
the prevalence of O* species and presence of reduced centers and
O2-derived intermediates as minority species. Such kinetic trends
are consistent with facile re-oxidation events but do not provide
any insights into the nature or rates of the O2 activation pathways.
Consequently, inferences about the mechanism and the identity
and reactive properties of O2-derived intermediates require their
reactive scavenging to form speciﬁc products during ODH reac-
tions. Here, C3H6 alkene is used as a probe molecule during CH3OH
and C2H5OH ODH (Sections 3.2 and 3.4) in order to detect the pres-
ence of bound O2-derived minority species formed in re-oxidation
pathways without disturbing the nature or turnover rates of ODH
pathways. In doing so, we demonstrate a generalized method of
inquiry
into
the
kinetically-irrelevant
re-oxidation
part
of
Mars-van
Krevelen
catalytic
cycles
by
scavenging
reactive
O-derived species through chemical reactions that form speciﬁc
detectable products. The conclusions reached are conﬁrmed by
DFT-derived free energy estimates for plausible elementary steps,
which account for the identity of O2-derived species derived from
scavenging reactions by C3H6 and for the rate of their formation
and consumption (Sections 3.3 and 3.5).
3.2. CH3OH-O2-C3H6 reactions on NH4-POM clusters
The use of NH4-POM clusters (instead of H-POM) prevents
alkene oligomerization and alkanol elimination and condensation
reactions that occur readily on Brønsted acids; these side reac-
tions form oligomers that block active sites of protons (H+) and
lattice O-atoms (O*) in H-POM clusters, especially when C3H6 is
added to CH3OH-O2 reactants (Fig. S3). In contrast with CH3OH-
O2-C3H6 reactions on H-POM clusters, CH3OH ODH and C3H6
epoxidation on NH4-POM did not show detectable deactivation
(Fig. S4). The titration of protons by NH3 also inhibited C3H6
hydration to 2-propanol, which can subsequently dehydrogenate
on O* sites to form acetone, a molecule that can also be formed
via hydride shifts in propene oxide, the primary product in pro-
pene epoxidation.
C3H6 epoxidation products were detected on NH4-POM only
when CH3OH was also present in O2-C3H6 mixtures at 453 K, indi-
cating that lattice O-atoms (O*) in NH4-POM clusters on their own
cannot catalyze epoxidation turnovers. Epoxidation events require
that CH3OH molecules dehydrogenate at O* sites and form reduced
centers, which can then react with O2 to form the electrophilic
dioxygen species that are required for inserting an O-atom into
the C@C bonds of C3H6. Such O2 activation routes have been
Scheme 3. Proposed elementary steps for the re-oxidation of reduced Mo-based
NH4-POM clusters by O2(g) and the decomposition of bound peroxo (OO*) species
and gaseous H2O2 molecules. Quasi-equilibrated steps are denoted by oval symbols
superimposed over double arrows. Nomenclatures for reactive species are shown in
parentheses under each structure. Recombinative desorption of H2O from H/OH*
generates * (step 3). Inner and outer sphere O2 activation routes on * and H/OH* lead
to form OO* and H2O2(g), respectively (steps 4a and 4b). Reactions of OO* with
CH3OH or C3H6 regenerate O* (steps 5a and 5b). H2O2 reacts with a reduced center
(* or H/OH*) to regenerate O* and release H2O, or with O* to form OO* and H2O
(steps 6a and 6b).
232
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
proposed to involve bound peroxo (OO*) species [11,20,29] and are
denoted as ‘‘inner sphere O2 activation routes” [14,21], because
they require the formation of metal-oxygen (MAO) bonds via
OO* intermediates.
The primary epoxidation product, propene epoxide, subse-
quently isomerizes to acetone [32], leading to acetone to propene
epoxide molar ratios that increase linearly with increasing C3H6
conversion but extrapolate to zero values as conversion decreases
(Fig. S5). Epoxidation rates (rEpox) are thus given by the combined
molar formation rates of propene epoxide (rPE) and acetone (rAce).
The effects of C3H6, H2O, CH3OH, and O2 pressures on CH3OH
ODH and C3H6 epoxidation rates are examined next in the context
of plausible O2 activation elementary steps.
3.2.1. Effect of C3H6 on CH3OH ODH and C3H6 epoxidation rates
CH3OH ODH rates were essentially unaffected by changes in
C3H6 pressure (0–35 kPa; 453 K; Fig. 3a), indicating that C3H6-
derived bound species are present at low coverages on O* (step
1c; Scheme 2). Thus, C3H6 epoxidation rates can be used to identify
the involvement of bound O2-derived intermediates during re-
oxidation events and their reactivity for O-insertion reactions,
without disturbing the ODH pathways that form reduced centers.
Epoxidation rates were much lower than ODH rates at low C3H6
pressures, but increased with increasing C3H6 pressure and
approached a constant value above 8 kPa C3H6 (Fig. 3a); this con-
stant value corresponds to maximum epoxidation rates that are
about ten-fold smaller than ODH reaction rates.
Schemes 2 and 3 show plausible routes for the reduction [3,44]
and re-oxidation [11,14,21,44] of NH4-POM clusters during CH3OH
ODH occurring via Mars-van Krevelen redox cycles. Re-oxidation
routes also include a step accounting for the scavenging of bound
O2-derived species via C3H6 epoxidation [29,45]. In the NH4-POM
reduction steps, the molecular adsorption of CH3OH on lattice O-
atoms (O*; step 1a; Scheme 2) precedes the kinetically-relevant
H-abstraction step to form HCHO and a vicinal hydroxyl pair (H/
OH*; step 2; Scheme 2) [3,44]. H2O and C3H6 molecules can also
adsorb and occupy active O* species (steps 1b and 1c; Scheme 2),
thus possibly inhibiting ODH rates.
Reduced centers consisting of H/OH* formed via step 2 in
Scheme 2 must be re-oxidized by O2 to regenerate the oxidized
centers (O*), required for subsequent ODH turnovers. The discus-
sion that follows provides a formalism to probe two speciﬁc
branching points along the re-oxidation sequences shown in
Scheme 3. At one juncture, O2 activation occurs via either inner
and outer sphere routes to form O2-derived species with concur-
rent two-electron re-oxidization of reduced NH4-POM clusters
(steps 4a and 4b; Scheme 3). At the other branching point, OO* con-
sumption can occur via parallel reactions with either CH3OH or
C3H6 (steps 5a and 5b; Scheme 3). The kinetic responses of epoxi-
dation and ODH rates and their ratios to C3H6 pressure are dis-
cussed in the context of the contributions of the parallel routes
at these two branching points.
Inner sphere routes involve recombinative H2O desorption from
H/OH* to form O-vacancies (*) (step 3; Scheme 3). Subsequent O2
Fig. 2. DFT-derived structures for (NH4)3PMo12O40 (NH4-POM) Keggin type poly-
oxometalate clusters. O-atoms labeled as b1 to b3 are used for probing energetics of
elementary steps involved in redox cycles.
Fig. 3. C3H6 epoxidation and CH3OH ODH rates (per POM-ks) measured on NH4-POM at 453 K as a function of (a) C3H6 pressure (1–35 kPa; 1 kPa CH3OH and 20 kPa O2) and
(b) H2O pressure (0.01–0.45 kPa; 1 kPa CH3OH, 20 kPa O2, 35 kPa C3H6,). Dashed curves represent the best regression ﬁts to the functional form of rate equations for C3H6
epoxidation and CH3OH ODH in Scheme 4.
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
233
activation at * forms bound peroxo (OO*) species (step 4a;
Scheme 3), which can be scavenged by C3H6 to form epoxide with
the regeneration of one O* (step 5b; Scheme 3). The rate of epoxi-
dation (rEpox) via OO* species is given by:
rEpox ¼ kEpoxPC3H6 OO
½
;
ð6Þ
where kEpox denotes the ﬁrst-order rate constant for C3H6 epoxida-
tion on OO* (step 5b; Scheme 3) and depends on the free energy dif-
ference between a kinetically-relevant O-insertion TS and its
C3H6(g) and OO* precursors. When C3H6 epoxidation accounts for
all OO* consumption events, the pseudo-steady-state concentration
of OO* species is given by the ratio of their formation rate (rOO*) to
kEpoxPC3H6;
OO
½
 ¼
rOO
kEpoxPC3H6
;
ð7Þ
which upon substitution into Eq. (6) would lead to rEpox values that
are independent of C3H6 pressure and equal to rOO* at all pressures.
Measured epoxidation rates, however, initially increased with
increasing
C3H6
pressure
before
reaching
a
constant
value
(Fig. 3a). These trends are indicative of the involvement of alternate
OO* consumption routes that compete with epoxidation events and
which must occur in order to complete the re-oxidation pathways
in the absence of C3H6. DFT calculations suggest that such routes
may involve OO* decomposition via reactions with CH3OH (step
5a; Scheme3), ultimately leading to the regeneration of O* along
with a formation of HCHO and H2O (Section 3.5.1).
The initial increase in epoxidation rates with C3H6 pressure (<8
kPa; Fig. 3a) is consistent with larger contributions from epoxida-
tion routes (step 5b; Scheme 3) than from alternate routes (step
5a; Scheme 3) to OO* consumption rates as the C3H6 to CH3OH
ratio increases. The epoxidation rates become less sensitive to
C3H6 pressure (>8 kPa) as most of the OO* species are scavenged
by C3H6 instead of CH3OH and reach asymptotic values that reﬂect
epoxidation rates that become equal to those for OO* formation
(rOO*, Eqs. (6) and (7)). The rates of NH4-POM reduction by CH3OH
dehydrogenation (step 2; Scheme 2) must be equal to the re-
oxidation rates at steady-state; therefore, these asymptotic values
would equal the CH3OH ODH rates when all reduced centers
formed via ODH steps are re-oxidized via the formation of OO*
intermediates. Asymptotic epoxidation rates, however, are much
lower than the ODH rates (Fig. 3a), indicative of the involvement
of alternate re-oxidation routes that exclude OO* intermediates.
Such conclusions are also evident from the ratio of the rates of
epoxidation and ODH (rEpox/rODH), shown as a function of C3H6
pressure (0–35 kPa; 453 K) in Fig. 4. The asymptotic (rEpox/rODH)
ratios (for C3H6/CH3OH > 8) reﬂect conditions for which OO* con-
sumption via epoxidation routes is dominant (i.e., without contri-
butions
from
step
5a
in
Scheme
3);
therefore,
ODH
rates
exclusively reﬂect the reduction rates of NH4-POM clusters that
must equal their re-oxidation rates at steady-state. Thus, asymp-
totic rEpox/rODH values represent the fraction of re-oxidation events
that occur through OO* intermediates. These fractions are much
smaller than unity (<0.1; Fig. 4), consistent with the prevalent
involvement of re-oxidation pathways other than OO*-mediated
routes to re-oxidation rates.
These
alternate
re-oxidation
routes
may
involve
proton-
coupled electron-transfer from vicinal OH pairs (H/OH*) at reduced
centers to gaseous or weakly-bound O2, leading to the formation of
H2O2 (step 4b; Scheme 3). These processes are known to occur in
liquid media and are denoted as ‘‘outer sphere” routes, because
they do not disturb the inner coordination sphere of the metal cen-
ters or the covalent MAO bonds [12,14]. The H2O2 formed in these
two-electron re-oxidation steps can diffuse and re-oxidize another
two-electron reduced center (* or H/OH*; step 6a; Scheme 3) [12],
thus completing the four-electron re-oxidation process required
for O2(g) to act as the stoichiometric oxidant in Mars-van Krevelen
cycles. The involvement of parallel inner and outer sphere O2 acti-
vation routes (steps 4a and 4b; Scheme 3) is consistent with DFT-
derived activation free energies, as shown by detailed assessments
of energies for intermediates and transition states involved in
these two O2 activation paths (Section 3.3).
3.2.2. Effects of H2O on CH3OH ODH and C3H6 epoxidation rates
The re-oxidation steps in Scheme 3 include parallel inner and
outer sphere O2 activation routes mediated by O2 reactions with
either * or H/OH* to form OO* or H2O2, respectively (steps 4a and
4b; Scheme 3). As a result, their relative contributions depend on
the ratio of * and H/OH* coverages ([*]/[H/OH*]), which decreases
with increasing H2O pressure as a consequence of the equilibration
of step 3 (Scheme 3). These effects of H2O are probed here by mea-
suring (rEpox/rODH) ratios at different H2O pressures and high C3H6/
CH3OH ratios to ensure that OO* species exclusively react with
C3H6 to form epoxidation products (step 5b; Scheme 3) instead
of reacting with CH3OH (step 5a; Scheme 3).
CH3OH ODH rates (without added C3H6) decreased with
increasing H2O pressure (Fig. S6) because of competitive adsorp-
tion of H2O with CH3OH on O* (steps 1a and 1b; Scheme 2) [3];
rODH ¼
k
0
ODHPCH3OH
1 þ KCH3OHPCH3OH þ KH2OPH2O
ð8Þ
Here, KCH3OH and KH2O are the equilibrium constants for molec-
ular adsorption of CH3OH and H2O on O*, respectively (steps 1a and
1b; Scheme 2), and k’ODH (=KCH3OH kODH) denotes the ﬁrst-order rate
constant for CH3OH ODH (step 2; Scheme 2). The functional form of
Eq. (8) accurately describes all rate data (Fig. S6) with larger
regressed values for KH2O (8 ± 4 kPa1) than for KCH3OH (0.4 ± 01
kPa1).
CH3OH ODH and C3H6 epoxidation rates are shown in Fig. 3b as
a function of H2O pressure (0.01–0.45 kPa; 453 K). Acetone can be
formed via propene oxide isomerization but also via C3H6 hydra-
tion when H2O is co-fed; such contributions were excluded from
Fig. 4. Ratios of C3H6 epoxidation and CH3OH ODH rates (rEpox/rODH) as a function of
C3H6 pressure (., 1–35 kPa; 1 kPa CH3OH, 20 kPa O2) and H2O pressure (d, 0.01–
0.45 kPa; 1 kPa CH3OH, 20 kPa O2, 35 kPa C3H6) on NH4-POM at 453 K. Dashed
curves represent the best regression ﬁts of the rate data in Fig. 3 to the functional
form of rate equations for C3H6 epoxidation and CH3OH ODH in Scheme 4.
234
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
C3H6 conversion rates by subtracting acetone formation rates mea-
sured with O2-C3H6-H2O mixtures from those measured with CH3-
OH-O2-C3H6-H2O reactants (details in SI, Section S4). ODH rates
decreased with increasing H2O pressure, but epoxidation rates
decreased even more strongly (Fig. 3b), as evident from (rEpox/rODH)
ratios that decreased with increasing H2O pressure (Fig. 4). These
rEpox/rODH ratios reﬂect the fraction of re-oxidation events occur-
ring via OO*-mediated inner sphere routes. Consequently, these
data are consistent with a shift from * to H/OH* via the equilibra-
tion of step 3 (Scheme 3) and with a concomitant preference for
outer sphere routes as H2O concentrations increase (step 4b;
Scheme 3).
The formation of C3H6 epoxidation products from CH3OH-O2-
C3H6 reactions, but not from O2-C3H6 reactions, indicates that inner
sphere routes mediated by bound peroxo (OO*) species are
involved in the re-oxidation of reduced NH4-POM by O2, as also
proposed in O2 activation during homogeneous oxidations [12–
14], because such O2-derived species are active for insertion of
O-atoms into alkenes [46,47]. These reaction routes are also found
in monooxygenase enzymes that form electrophilic peroxo (OO*)
species via O2 reactions with two-electron reduced centers to per-
form O-insertions into C@C or CAH bonds in alkanes, alkenes and
arenes [15]. These mechanisms, demonstrated here for oxidation of
gaseous substrates on solid catalysts, offer strategies for using
alkanols as sacriﬁcial reductants to form bound peroxo (OO*) spe-
cies for propene epoxidation, while forming alkanals as useful co-
products. Therefore, these epoxidation routes using sacriﬁcial
reductants, after appropriate optimization, may provide alterna-
tives to H2O2 and organic peroxides as epoxidation reagents, an
approach considered in homogeneous systems [46,47].
OO*-mediated inner sphere routes, however, account for only a
fraction of the re-oxidation events (<0.1; Fig. 4). Their contribu-
tions become even smaller when H2O was added (Fig. 4) because
the conversion of reduced centers from * to H/OH* (step 3;
Scheme 3) favors outer sphere routes (step 4b; Scheme 3). The
mechanistic features and redox properties that control the relative
rates of inner and outer sphere re-oxidation routes are thus essen-
tial to choose catalysts and conditions that favor the inner sphere
routes that lead to epoxidation turnovers. Such inquiries of provid-
ing details of elementary steps and the quantitative assessment of
the two O2 activation routes during ODH turnovers are achieved
using DFT calculations on relevant intermediates and transition
states involved in re-oxidation steps, which are discussed next.
3.3. Density functional theory assessment of intermediates and rates
for inner and outer sphere O2 activation routes
Inner sphere O2 activation routes involve quasi-equilibrated
recombinative desorption of H2O from vicinal OH groups (H/OH*)
to form O-vacancies (*) and the subsequent irreversible O2 activa-
tion on * to form OO* (steps 3 and 4a; Scheme 3). Their rate (rin) is
given by:
rin ¼ kinPO2 
½  ¼
kin
KwPH2O
PO2 H=OH
½
 ¼ k
0
in
PH2O
PO2 H=OH
½

ð9Þ
Kw denotes the equilibrium constant for the interconversion of H/
OH* to form * (step 3; Scheme 3) and kin denotes the ﬁrst-order rate
constant for O2 activation on * to form OO* (step 4a; Scheme 3). The
rate of outer sphere routes (rout) to form H2O2(g) via irreversible O2
activation on H/OH* species (steps 4b; Scheme 3) is given by:
rout ¼ koutPO2 H=OH
½

ð10Þ
where kout denotes the ﬁrst-order rate constant for O2 activation on
H/OH* to form H2O2(g) (step 4b; Scheme 3).
Efﬁcient epoxidation events during CH3OH ODH turnovers
require the catalytic system to preferentially re-oxidize via OO*-
mediated inner sphere routes. The contributions from inner and
outer sphere O2 activation are given by their rate ratios (rin/rout,
deﬁned as v);
v ¼ rin
rout
¼
kinPO2 
½ 
koutPO2 H=OH
½
 ¼
k
0
in
koutPH2O
;
ð11Þ
which depends on the ratio of the respective rate parameters
(k0in/kout) and on the H2O pressure. These rate parameters, k0in
(=kin/Kw) and kout, reﬂect in turn the free energies of formation of
the transition states for inner and outer sphere O2 activation routes
from common O2(g) and H/OH* precursors; their values are exam-
ined next using DFT methods.
3.3.1. Mechanistic details of inner and outer sphere O2 activation
routes
Gaseous O2 in its most stable triplet ground state (two unpaired
p-electrons) reacts with reduced centers (* or H/OH*) to form O2-
derived species (OO* or H2O2) that are more stable in their singlet
states (no unpaired electrons) [11]. Consequently, their respective
singlet and triplet potential energy surfaces (PES) must cross along
their interconversion reaction coordinate, potentially leading to
broken-symmetry singlet states at the crossing point; these elec-
tronic structures can have lower energies than singlet or triplet
states because of spin-orbit coupling [10]. The spin-crossings are
examined here by calculating minimum energy paths (MEPs) for
both singlet and triplet states using nudge elastic band (NEB)
methods [41]; the existence of broken-symmetry transition states
near
the
crossing-points
is
examined
by
performing
spin-
unrestricted Dimer calculations [42] with singlet multiplicity.
The evidence for symmetry-breaking in converged transition states
becomes apparent from the existence of non-degenerate energy
levels for electrons of opposite spins, in spite of their singlet states,
and from their lower energies compared to those derived from
spin-restricted-singlet and triplet calculations.
The spin crossing for inner sphere O2 activation routes on NH4-
POM clusters (step 4a; Scheme 3) is shown in Fig. 5. Fig. 5a shows a
MEP connecting a triplet O2(g) to a triplet OO* species, together
with singlet state (spin-polarized) unrelaxed single-point energies
of all structures in this MEP. Fig. 5b shows a MEP for singlet states
(spin-polarized) together with corresponding triplet single-point
energies. Both versions of these calculations (Fig. 5a and 5b) show
that the reactant O2(g) is more stable in its triplet state, while the
bound peroxo (OO*) product is more stable in the singlet state. The
initial O2 adsorption goes through a local maximum energy on the
triplet path before a spin-crossing that occurs at a lower energy
than this maximum and leads to a singlet OO* species with even
lower energy. Taken together, these trends show that the maxi-
mum in the combined MEP occurs on the triplet PES, instead of
the singlet-triplet crossing point. This maximum corresponds to a
triplet TS obtained using Dimer method [42] (denoted TSin,
Fig. 5), which has an electronic energy of 141 kJ mol1 before ZPVE
corrections relative to O2(g) and H/OH* precursors.
O2 reactions with transition-metals can lead to peroxo species
(OO*) through either concerted [22,48] or sequential [49,50] trans-
fer of two electrons to dioxygen. In the stepwise mechanism, the
ﬁrst electron transfer to O2 forms g1-superoxo intermediates,
which convert to g2-superoxo species via subsequent electron-
transfer, at which point the triplet-to-singlet crossing occurs
[49,50]. Such mechanism was previously suggested for O2 activa-
tion on transition-metal complexes of Pd [49], Co [50], Ir [50],
and Ru [50]. An analogous stepwise mechanism is suggested by
the MEP for inner sphere O2 activation routes on NH4-POM clusters
(Fig. 5) with TSin representing that for the ﬁrst electron-transfer
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
235
step to form g1-superoxo. The O2 moiety in TSin (Fig. 6f) assumes
an end-on (g1) geometry with an O@O bond distance of 0.125
nm, which lies between the bond distances in O2(g) (0.123 nm)
and in g1-superoxo complexes of transition metals (0.128–0.130
nm) [51,52]. The O2 moiety at TSin also acquires a negative charge
that is much smaller than for a full electron (0.12 e). The under-
coordinated O-atom in TSin (O00-atom; Fig. 6f) reacts with the Mo
center and converts to the g2-peroxo products (Fig. 6 g) via a
kinetically-irrelevant second electron-transfer step; no other bar-
rier was found between TSin and g2-superoxo product (Fig. 5).
The bound peroxo (OO*) product state on NH4-POM clusters has
an O = O bond length (0.143 nm; Fig. 6 g) similar to that for side-
on g2-peroxo-Mo complexes (0.148 nm) [52] and a negative
charge slightly greater than a full electron (1.1 e) at the O2
moiety.
The MEP for outer sphere O2 activation routes, involving H2O2
formation via O2 reactions with H/OH* (step 4b; Scheme 3),
includes a sequential transfer of two H-atoms in H/OH* to O2(g).
They are shown in Fig. 5c and 5d for the triplet and singlet (spin-
polarized) NEB calculations, respectively. The ﬁrst H-atom transfer
to O2(g) forms a bound OOH intermediate in the triplet state via a
TS (TSout (a)) also in the triplet state (Fig. 5c). The OOH intermedi-
ate exhibits a radical-like character (∙OOH), evidenced by its
energy more stable in triplet state than in singlet state, because
charged HOO- species would exist in its singlet form. Its radical
nature is also evident from spin density maps that indicate the
presence of unpaired electrons in OOH (Fig. S9). The singlet and tri-
plet MEP curves cross as the second H-atom is transferred, leading
to H2O2 products in their stable singlet state. A dimer calculation
starting with the structure at the crossing point gave a broken-
symmetry TS (TSout (b); Fig. 5d), as evident from its energy lower
than both spin-restricted singlet and triplet states [10]. The TS
for the ﬁrst H-atom transfer (TSout (a); Fig. 6i) lies at the highest
energy point along the MEP with a 14 kJ mol1 barrier (electronic
energy without ZPVE corrections) relative to O2(g) and H/OH* pre-
cursors. The TS for the second H-atom transfer (TSout (b); Fig. S10)
exhibits a slightly lower barrier (9 kJ mol1, electronic energy
without ZPVE corrections), indicating that the second H-atom
transfer step is faster and thus kinetically-irrelevant. DFT-derived
MEP curves show that two-electron O2 activation routes on NH4-
POM clusters involve a stepwise mechanism for both inner and
outer sphere routes, with the ﬁrst step exhibiting the higher barrier
and limiting the reactions.
3.3.2. Gibbs free energies of intermediates and transition states
involved in O2 activation via inner and outer sphere routes
A more rigorous assessment of the relative contributions of
these
two
O2
activation
routes
requires
accurate
estimates
of Gibbs free energies, which are discussed next for all intermedi-
ates and transition states involved in inner and outer sphere
O2 activation routes (steps 3, 4a and 4b; Scheme 3). Free
energies are calculated at 453 K and 1 bar of gaseous species for
both routes.
Inner sphere routes require the recombination of two hydroxyl
groups in H/OH* (Fig. 6a) to form H2O* (Fig. 6c). This step is endo-
ergic with a free energy change of 59 kJ mol1 and involves a TS
Fig. 5. Minimum energy path (MEP) for (a, b) inner and (c, d) outer sphere O2 activation routes (steps 4a and 4b; Scheme 3) on NH4-POM. Panels (a) and (c) show MEP curves
on triplet potential energy surfaces with singlet (spin-polarized) state single-point energies of each structure shown for comparison. Panels (b) and (d) show converged
singlet state (spin-polarized) MEP curves with triplet state single-point energies of structures. Transition states energies (N; TSin, TSout (a) and TSout (b)) are calculated using
dimer calculations started from the images at the highest MEP (TSin, TSout (a); triplet state) or at the singlet-triplet crossing point (TSout (b); spin-polarized singlet state). All
energies are referenced to common O2(g) and H/OH* precursors.
236
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
(TSw, Fig. 6b) with a free energy barrier of 70 kJ mol1. The subse-
quent desorption of H2O forms an O-vacancy (*; Fig. 6d), which is
slightly endoergic (DGdes = 5 kJ mol1) in spite of the entropy
gained upon H2O desorption, indicative of the enthalpic instability
of O-vacancies (electronic energies, entropies, enthalpies, and free
energies for all species; Table S2; SI). Molecular adsorption of O2 on
O-vacancies (*) is also endoergic (DGads = 21 kJ mol1) because of
weak binding and of the loss of translational entropy upon O2 bind-
ing. Bound O2 species at * (*AO2; Fig. 6e) react via a TS (TSin; Fig. 6f)
and this step has a free energy barrier of 22 kJ mol1 (referenced to
bound O2 and *) to form OO* species (Fig. 6g). This O2 activation
step imposes the highest barrier (step 4a; Scheme 3) along the
inner sphere reaction coordinate, suggesting that the formation
of * and H2O(g) from H/OH* is quasi-equilibrated (step 3;
Scheme 3). Such equilibration is consistent with the decrease in
rEpox/rODH ratios upon adding H2O due to a shift in the * and H/
OH* equilibrium towards the latter (Fig. 4).
In the outer sphere routes (step 4b; Scheme 3), O2(g) adsorbs
weakly on H/OH* (DGads = 22 kJ mol1; H/OH*-O2, Fig. 6h). Bound
O2 species react with surface OAH bonds to form H2O2 and O*
(O*-H2O2; Fig. 6j) via a TS (TSout Fig. 6i), and this O2 activation step
has a free energy barrier of 56 kJ mol1, referenced to bound O2
and H/OH*. H2O2 molecules bound on O* desorb in an exoergic step
(DGdes = 10 kJ mol1).
The kinetic relevance of inner and outer sphere O2 activation
routes during re-oxidation events can be assessed by their rate
ratios (rin/rout, deﬁned as v; Eq. (11)), which depends on the ratio
of the respective rate parameters (k0in/kout) and on the H2O pres-
sure. These rate parameters, k0in (kin/Kw) and kout, reﬂect the free
energies of O2 activation transition states that are referenced to
the common precursors of O2(g) and H/OH*, as shown in Fig. 6
(107 and 78 kJ mol1 for TSin and TSout, respectively). The values
of v, calculated using these DFT-derived free energies, and their
comparisons to experimental values are discussed next.
Fig. 6. DFT-derived free energies (kJ mol1; 453 K, 1 bar) and optimized structures of intermediates and transition states involved in O2 activation on NH4-POM via inner and
outer sphere routes (steps 3, 4a and 4b; Scheme 3). Gibbs free energies are referenced to the common precursors of H/OH* and O2(g).
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
237
3.3.3. DFT-derived assessment of the relative contributions of inner
and outer sphere O2 activation routes
DFT-derived electronic energies, enthalpies, entropies and free
energies for O2 activation via inner and outer sphere routes are
shown in Table 1. Uncertainties in calculating low-frequency vibra-
tional modes (less than 150 cm1) of weakly bound adsorbates
and transition states can lead to signiﬁcant errors in thermody-
namic properties. Therefore, zero-point energies, enthalpy and
entropy values are obtained by substituting the contributions of
low-frequency modes with 0.7 times the translational and rota-
tional modes of O2(g), inspired by the experimental data suggest-
ing that weakly adsorbed molecules on oxide surfaces retain 0.7
of entropy of corresponding gaseous molecules [43]. At the limit
where O2 moiety in transition states does not retain any transla-
tional and rotational degree of freedom, these low-frequency
modes can be fully removed from vibrational partition functions,
and thermodynamic properties calculated using such treatments
are also shown in Table 1 for comparison. The ratio of re-
oxidation rates via inner and outer sphere routes (v = rin/rout)
based on these two different sets of assumptions are shown in
Fig. 7a. At a given temperature, the removal of low-frequency
vibrations (the dashed line; Fig. 7a) leads to much smaller v values
than their substitution by translations and rotations (the solid line;
Fig. 7a), suggesting that the transition state for the inner sphere
route has greater entropy contributions from weak surface modes.
The slopes of trends with temperature (Fig. 7a), however, were
similar for both types of calculations, consistent with small effects
of such treatments on enthalpies. The experimental rate ratio (v =
rin/rout) is obtained by regressing the rate data in Figs. 3 and 9 to
the functional form of the rate equations for ODH and epoxidation
(rate equations and estimated parameters in Scheme 4), derived
from the elementary steps in Schemes 2 and 3 (derivation in Sec-
tion S10, SI). Its value (0.1 at 0.01 kPa H2O, 453 K) lies within the
two sets of DFT-derived values for the two different assumptions
about low-frequency vibrational modes (0.01 < v < 4.4; 0.01 kPa
H2O; 453 K; Fig. 7a).
The v values increase with increasing temperature (Fig. 7b),
indicating that inner sphere routes become more prevalent at
higher temperatures, consistent with the higher activation enthal-
pies for the inner sphere route (Table 1). Higher H2O pressures
favor the outer sphere routes and lead to lower v values, because
of a concomitant preference for H/OH* over * species, as also evi-
dent from measured rEpox/rODH ratios that decrease with increasing
H2O pressures (Fig. 4). High operating temperatures with low H2O
contents favor OO*-mediated inner sphere routes and thus lead to
larger ratios of epoxidation to ODH rates. The v values (=rin/rout)
are also inﬂuenced by the composition of oxide catalysts, with a
greater preference for inner sphere routes on the more reducible
Mo-V based POM clusters than on W-POM clusters [14]. Such
effects of redox properties of oxides on inner and outer sphere
O2 activation transition states, and their concomitant inﬂuences
on rate constant ratios (k0in/kout; Eq. (11)) and v values are the sub-
ject to on-going studies, the results of which will be published at a
later time.
3.4. Effects of the concentrations of reduced centers on re-oxidation
routes
The relative contributions from inner and outer sphere O2 acti-
vation routes (steps 4a and 4b; Scheme 3) do not depend on the
Table 1
DFT-derived electronic energies (DE), enthalpies (DH), entropies (DS), and Gibbs
free energies (DG) of the transition states for inner and outer sphere O2 activation
routes (steps 4a and 4b; Scheme 3) referenced to common H/OH* and O2(g)
precursors on NH4-POM. DFT-derived structures of transition states are shown in
Fig. 6.
Inner sphere route
(steps 4a; Scheme 3)
Outer sphere route
(step 4b; Scheme 3)
DE (kJ mol1)a
141
14
DH (kJ mol1)b
131 (134)
9 (10)
DS (J mol1 K1)b
54 (9)
152 (140)
DG (kJ mol1)b
107 (92)
78 (73)
a At 0 K in vacuum, without zero-point vibrational energy corrections.
b Determined at 453 K and 1 bar of gaseous molecules. Values inside and outside
parentheses are calculated by removal of low-frequency vibrations and by their
substitution with 0.7 of translations and rotations of O2(g), respectively.
Fig. 7. DFT-derived v values (v = rin/rout; Eq. (11)) on NH4-POM as a function reciprocal temperature at (a) 0.01 kPa H2O and (b) 0.01 to 10 kPa H2O. The dashed lines in (a)
represent values obtained by removing the contributions of low-frequency vibrational modes while the solid lines are obtained by substituting such contributions with a 0.7
fraction of translational and rotational degrees of freedom of O2(g) (values in Table 1). Differences between v values from these two treatments are shaded. The symbol (j)
represents the measured v value (0.01 kPa H2O, 453 K) determined by regressing the rate data in Figs. 3 and 9 to the functional form of the rate equation in Scheme 4. The
shaded region in (b) represents v values less than unity.
238
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
total number of reduced centers present during steady-state ODH
catalysis because both routes require one reduced center (* or H/
OH*) for O2 activation (Eq. (11)). They depend only on the chem-
ical state of these reduced centers, because [*]/[H/OH*] ratios and
thus * and H/OH* concentrations are set by the equilibrium con-
stant (Kw; step 3; Scheme 3) and the prevalent H2O pressure.
The completion of re-oxidation steps by O2 during each ODH
turnover, however, requires the ultimate consumption of these
O2-derived species (OO* and H2O2) in subsequent re-oxidation
steps.
H2O2 molecules formed via outer sphere O2 activation routes
(step 4b; Scheme 3) can desorb and react with another reduced
(* or H/OH*) or oxidized (O*) center in NH4-POM clusters. Homoge-
neous H2O2 decomposition rates are undetectable below 723 K
[53] and thus do not contribute at the conditions used in this study.
H2O2 can react with either type of reduced centers (* or H/OH*) in
NH4-POM to form H2O (one or two molecules from * or H/OH*,
respectively) and re-oxidize these centers by forming O* species
(step 6a; Scheme 3) [12]. The sequential re-oxidation events via
steps 4b and 6a in Scheme 3 complete the four-electron oxidation
by O2, using H2O2 as the molecular shuttle for the second O-atom
in O2. These routes circumvent epoxidation reactions by prevent-
ing the formation of electrophilic bound OO* species and represent
the predominant re-oxidation route, as evident from epoxidation
to ODH rate ratios (repox/rODH) that remain much smaller than unity
even at high C3H6/CH3OH ratios (Fig. 4). In contrast, H2O2 reactions
with oxidized centers (O*) can form OO* and H2O (step 6b;
Scheme 3), as proposed for alkene epoxidation with H2O2 on
POM clusters [29,45–47]. This H2O2 consumption route leads to a
kinetic ‘‘crossing point” between otherwise parallel outer and
inner sphere O2 activation routes (steps 4a and 4b; Scheme 3),
because H2O2 formed in outer sphere route forms the same OO*
species derived from inner sphere routes.
H2O2 consumption via reactions with reduced or oxidized cen-
ters (steps 6a and 6b; Scheme 3) inﬂuences rEpox/rODH ratios
because reactions with reduced centers avoid the formation of
OO* and thus epoxidation. The ratio of the rates of these two
H2O2 reactions (r6a/r6b, deﬁned as c) is given by:
c ¼ r6a
r6b
¼ k6a PH2O2 
½ þk6a H=OHPH2O2 H=OH
½

k6bPH2O2 O
½

¼
k6a 
KwPH2O þ k6a H=OH


k6b
H=OH
½

O
½

¼ a H=OH
½

O
½

ð12Þ
k6a_*, k6a_H/OH* and k6b represent the ﬁrst-order rate constants for
H2O2 reactions with *, H/OH* and O* species, respectively (steps
6a and 6b; Scheme 3). The rate ratios, c (= r6a/r6b), depend on the
value of a (=(k6a_*/KwPH2O + k6a_H/OH*)/k6b) and on [H/OH*]/[O*] ratios.
When the contributions by OO*-mediated routes to re-oxidation
events are minor, [H/OH*]/[O*] ratios are given by (detailed deriva-
tion in Section S10):
H=OH
½

O
½

¼ k
0
ODHPalkanol
2koutPO2
;
ð13Þ
which applies, in general, for ODH reactions of different alkanols.
The factor of two in the denominator reﬂects the two reduced cen-
ters that are re-oxidized by each O2. The k0ODH values depend on the
free energy of a kinetically-relevant H-abstraction TS respect to its
gaseous alkanol and O* precursors. The substitution of Eq. (13) into
Eq. (12) gives a value for c (=r6a/r6b):
c ¼ r6a
r6b
¼ ak
0
ODHPalkanol
2koutPO2
ð14Þ
Next, we vary these c values by using more reactive alkanols
(C2H5OH; larger k0ODH value) and different CH3OH/O2 reactant
ratios.
3.4.1. Effects of alkanol reactivity on ODH and C3H6 epoxidation rates
Alkanol ODH and C3H6 epoxidation rates, measured with two
different alkanols (C2H5OH and CH3OH), are shown in Fig. 8a at dif-
ferent C3H6 pressures (1–35 kPa; 453 K). C2H5OH ODH rates were
about three-fold larger than for CH3OH, as expected from the
weaker
CAH
bonds
in
C2H5OH
[10,54].
Epoxidation
rates
approached constant asymptotic values with increasing C3H6 pres-
sure for both alkanols, but these values were larger for C2H5OH
than CH3OH. These trends reﬂect higher OO* formation rates
Scheme 4. Rate equations for CH3OH ODH and C3H6 epoxidation derived from steps proposed in Schemes 2 and 3 and rate parameters estimated from measured data on
NH4-POM at 453 K Details of the derivations are in Section S10. Rate parameters are estimated by ﬁtting the rate data in Figs. 3 and 9 to the functional form of rate equations
for C3H6 epoxidation and CH3OH ODH. Uncertainties reﬂect 95% conﬁdence intervals.
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
239
resulting from a higher concentration of reduced centers (* and H/
OH*) for the alkanol with larger ODH rate constant (k0ODH; Eq. (13)).
Asymptotic epoxidation rates are much smaller than ODH rates for
both alkanols, indicating that re-oxidation routes that exclude OO*
intermediates remain the predominant re-oxidation path for both
reactants.
These asymptotic rEpox/rODH ratios reﬂect the fraction of re-
oxidation events mediated by OO* intermediates, either via inner
sphere O2 activation or via H2O2 (formed in outer sphere routes)
reactions with O*. C2H5OH reductants, which lead to larger cover-
ages of reduced centers than CH3OH, led to smaller rEpox/rODH ratios
and to the less prevalent involvement of OO*-mediated routes
(Fig. 8b). These data indicate that more abundant reduced centers
(* or H/OH*) lead to a higher probability of H2O2 reactions with
such centers, thus forming O*, instead of reacting with O* to form
OO* (steps 6a and 6b; Scheme 3), leading to the higher c values
observed for the more reactive alkanol (Eq. (14)).
3.4.2. Effects of CH3OH and O2 pressures on CH3OH ODH and C3H6
epoxidation rates
Both CH3OH ODH and C3H6 epoxidation rates increased with
increasing CH3OH pressure (<1 kPa; Fig. 9a), because reduced
centers formed via CH3OH dehydrogenation (step 2; Scheme 2)
act as intermediates for epoxidation events by activating O2 as
OO* species. The (rEpox/rODH) ratios decreased with increasing
CH3OH pressure (Fig. 10), indicating that OO*-mediated re-
oxidation routes become less prevalent as the concentration of
reduced centers (* or H/OH*) increases. As in the case of the
Fig. 8. (a) Measured rates (per POM-ks) of CH3OH (N) and C2H5OH (.) ODH and C3H6 epoxidation (r and j, measured with CH3OH and C2H5OH, respectively) and (b) the
ratio of epoxidation to ODH rates for CH3OH (d) or C2H5OH (►) reactants as a function of C3H6 pressure (1–35 kPa) on NH4-POM at 453 K (1 kPa alkanol, 20 kPa O2). Dashed
curves represent regression of the rate data to the functional form of rate equations in Scheme 4. Differences between the measurements with CH3OH and C2H5OH are shaded.
Fig. 9. C3H6 epoxidation and CH3OH ODH rates (per POM-ks) measured on NH4-POM at 453 K as a function of (a) CH3OH pressure (0.1–4 kPa; 20 kPa O2, 35 kPa C3H6) and (b)
O2 pressure (1–25 kPa; 1 kPa CH3OH, 35 kPa C3H6). Dashed curves represent best regression ﬁts of the rate data to the functional form of rate equations in Scheme 4.
240
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
more reactive alkanol, this reﬂects H2O2 reactions with reduced
centers (* or H/OH*), which circumvent OO* formation via H2O2
reactions with O*.
The number of reduced centers also increases as the O2 pressure
decreases (Eq. (13)). Epoxidation rates increased slightly with O2
pressure, even though ODH rates remained unchanged (Fig. 9b).
These trends are evident in (rEpox/rODH) ratios that decreased
monotonically with the reciprocal of O2 pressures (Fig. 10), indica-
tive of a concomitant increase in c values (Eq. (14)).
The effects of alkanol reactivity and CH3OH/O2 ratios on (rEpox/
rODH) values indicate that H2O2 formed via outer sphere O2 activa-
tion routes react with reduced or oxidized centers (steps 6a and
6b; Scheme 3) at rates proportional to the relative concentrations
of these centers (Eqs. (12)–(14)). These steps are mediated by the
diffusive shuttling of H2O2(g), which allows the second two-
electron oxidation to occur at reduced or oxidized centers present
beyond molecular distances. In contrast, bound peroxo (OO*) spe-
cies can access non-vicinal reduced centers only via the activated
migration of one of its O-atoms throughout oxide surfaces; such
OO* hopping routes, however, impose signiﬁcant kinetic hurdles.
As a result, they cannot account for the fast nature of re-
oxidation routes during ODH turnovers. OO* species can decom-
pose instead by two-electron oxidation of a gaseous reductant,
either an alkanol (step 5a; Scheme 3) or an alkene (step 5b;
Scheme3), thus completing the four-electron oxidation by O2. In
what follows, theoretical treatments are used to examine the
routes by which O2-derived species (OO* or H2O2) react in subse-
quent steps to complete the reduction-oxidation cycles required
for catalytic oxidation turnovers.
3.5. DFT-derived free energies of intermediates and transition states
involved in the reactions of O2-derived species
3.5.1. Decomposition routes of bound peroxo (OO*) species
3.5.1.1. OO* reactions with a distant reduced center. During ODH
catalysis, reduced centers are present as minor species, as
evidenced from the zero-order dependence of ODH rates on O2
pressure (Figs. 1b and 3b) and from in-situ UV–vis studies [19].
The unfavorable thermodynamics also lead these centers (i.e.
O-vacancies) to be isolated, consistent with much higher energy
(by 117 kJ mol1) of the H-POM cluster with vicinal O-vacancies
than with isolated O-vacancies (located at Ob2 and Ob3 versus
Ob2 and Ob4; Fig. S11). This is also evident from DFT-derived HAE
values, which become much less negative (by 50–70 kJ mol1)
for O-atoms near a reduced center (H/OH*) than for distant O-
atoms, indicative of the unlikely formation of proximal reduced cen-
ters (Fig. S11). The decomposition of bound peroxo (OO*) species via
reactions with another reduced center (OO* + * ? 2O*)[11,20] thus
requires sequential ‘‘OO* hopping” steps to reach a non-vicinal
reduced center, where the migrating species must traverse signiﬁ-
cant distances at such low prevalent concentrations of reduced cen-
ters. Fig. 11 shows DFT-derived free energies (453 K, 1 bar) and the
structures of the intermediates and transition states involved in OO*
decomposition via hopping to non-vicinal reduced center. Free ener-
gies are referenced to OO* and non-vicinal H/OH*, which represent
the ‘‘reactants” in such migration events.
An O-vacancy (*) forms from H/OH* species via recombinative
desorption of H2O (step 3; Scheme 2; Section 3.3.2). The reaction
of this vacancy with non-vicinal OO* must involve a migration of
an O-atom in OO* to a vicinal O*. This O-hopping step involves a
TS (TSO_hopping; Fig. 11a) that represents the highest barrier (DG
= +151 kJ mol1) along the OO* decomposition reaction coordinate;
this step must occur several times in order to reach a remote
vacancy.
Once
OO*
reaches
a
location
vicinal
to
*
(OO*_*;
Fig. 11b), it reacts to form two O* species via a TS (TSAct_OO*;
Fig. 11c) with a free energy barrier much lower than the O-
hopping step.
DFT-derived activation barriers for OO* hopping steps (DG =
151 kJ mol1) are much higher than OO* formation steps via inner
or outer sphere O2 activation routes (steps 3, 4a and 4b; Scheme 3;
107 and 78 kJ mol1; Section 3.3.2). These barriers are also higher
than the kinetically-relevant H-abstraction step (step 2; Scheme 2;
139 kJ mol1) and thus inconsistent with re-oxidation rate con-
stants that are much larger than for reduction steps [19], and with
the presence of reduced centers as minority species during ODH
reactions. Therefore, we conclude that OO* migrations and reac-
tions with another reduced center do not contribute detectably
to re-oxidation events in Mars-van Krevelen redox cycles for these
oxide systems.
3.5.1.2. OO* reactions with alkanols. The dearth of vicinal reduced
centers and the high OO* hopping barriers indicate that more facile
OO* decomposition routes must be involved. OO* can react with
reactant alkanols to form alkanals and H2O, regenerating O* (step
5a; Scheme 3). Fig. 12 shows DFT-derived structures and free ener-
gies (453 K, 1 bar) of intermediates and transition states involved
in such routes.
CH3OH adsorbs weakly on OO* (DG = 4 kJ mol1; Fig. 12a) and
reacts via a CAH activation TS (TSODH_OO*; Fig. 12b) with a free
energy of 94 kJ mol1, referenced to its CH3OH(g) and OO* precur-
sors. This CAH activation can lead to OOH* and a bound CH2OH
species, which forms HCHO (Fig. 12c) via a sequential OAH activa-
tion step by a vicinal O*; the free energy of this OAH cleavage TS
(DG = 14 kJ mol1, referenced to CH3OH(g) and OO*; Fig. S12) is
much lower than the CAH activation TS. The OOH* species and vic-
inal OH* formed react to release H2O and re-form O* via a dehydra-
tion TS (TSDehyd; Fig. 12d), which also present much lower
activation barrier than the CAH activation step. Alternatively, the
CAH activation can be followed by an insertion of an O-atom in
OO*
into the
CAH
bond in
CH3OH
to
form
methane
diol
(Fig. 12e), which dehydrates to form HCHO and H2O via a H-
atom transfer TS (TS0
Dehyd; Fig. 12f) with a free energy much lower
Fig. 10. Ratios of epoxidation to ODH rates (rEpox/rODH) as a function of CH3OH
pressure (d, 0.1–4 kPa, 20 kPa O2, 35 kPa C3H6) and the reciprocal of O2 pressure (N,
1–25 kPa, 1 kPa CH3OH, 35 kPa C3H6) on NH4-POM at 453 K. Dashed curves
represent best regression ﬁts of the rate data to the functional form of rate
equations in Scheme 4.
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
241
Fig. 11. DFT-derived free energies (kJ mol1; 453 K, 1 bar) and structures of intermediates and transition states involved in OO* decomposition routes on NH4-POM via
O-atom migration and reaction with another reduced center. Free energies of OO* and H/OH* are taken as reference.
Fig. 12. DFT-derived free energies (kJ mol1; 453 K, 1 bar) and structures of intermediates and transition states on NH4-POM involved in OO* reactions with CH3OH(g) to form
O*, HCHO(g) and H2O(g) (step 5a; Scheme 3). Two plausible reaction routes, one involving sequential CAH and OAH activations and another inserting O-atom into CAH bond
are considered. Free energies of OO* and CH3OH(g) are taken as reference.
242
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
than the CAH activation TS. In both cases, OO* decomposes to re-
form O* by reacting with CH3OH(g), ultimately leading to form
HCHO and H2O.
The ratio of the rates for OO* decomposition via oxidation of
non-vicinal reduced centers (*) to that for its oxidation of CH3OH
(g) reactants (d = r*_OO*/rODH_OO*) is given by:
d ¼
r OO
rODH OO ¼ ðk OO=ðKwPH2OÞ OO
½
 H=OH
½

kODH OO OO
½
PCH3OH
ð15Þ
Here, kODH_OO* reﬂects the ﬁrst-order rate constant for OO* reac-
tion with CH3OH(g) and depends on the free energy of a CAH acti-
vation TS (TSODH_OO*; Fig. 12b), relative to its CH3OH(g) and OO*
precursors. K*_OO*/Kw denotes the rate parameter for OO* reaction
with a non-vicinal reduced center (H/OH*) and depends on the free
energy of a OO* hopping TS (TSO_hopping; Fig. 11a), relative to OO*
and a non-vicinal H/OH*. The (k*_OO*/(KwkODH_OO*)) value calculated
from DFT-derived free energies is 3x107 (453 K; 1 bar), which,
taken together with the presence of reduced centers as minority
intermediate species, indicates that d values are much less than
unity and that CH3OH reactions with OO* are much faster than
OO* hopping routes.
3.5.1.3. OO* reactions with alkenes. C3H6 molecules introduced in
CH3OH-O2 streams can also react with OO* to form propene oxides
(step 5b; Scheme 3), as shown by their formation from such reac-
tant mixtures (Figs. 3 and 9). Fig. 13 shows DFT-derived free ener-
gies (453 K; 1 bar) and structures for the intermediates and
transition states involved in OO*-C3H6 reactions. C3H6 adsorbs
weakly on OO* with a reaction free energy of 22 kJ mol1
(Fig. 13a) and forms propene oxide via an O-insertion transition
state (TSEpox; Fig. 13b) with an activation free energy of 103 kJ
mol1, referenced to its OO* and C3H6(g) precursors.
The effects of C3H6 pressure on epoxidation rates (<8 kPa C3H6;
Fig. 3a) reﬂect competitive CH3OH and C3H6 reactions with OO*
(steps 5a and 5b; Scheme 3) as discussed in Section 3.2.1. The ratio
of these two OO* decomposition rates (e = rEpox/rODH_OO*) is:
e ¼
rEpox
rODH OO ¼
kEpox½OOPC3H6
kODH OO½OOPCH3OH
¼ b PC3H6
PCH3OH
ð16Þ
Here, kODH_OO* is the ﬁrst-order rate constant for OO* reaction
with CH3OH(g) (step 5a; Scheme 3) and depends on the free energy
of the CAH activation TS (TSODH_OO*; Fig. 12b), relative to its CH3OH
(g) and OO* precursors. The kEpox term denotes the ﬁrst-order rate
constant for the reaction of OO* with C3H6(g) (step 5b; Scheme 3),
which reﬂects the free energy of an O-insertion TS (TSD_Epox;
Fig. 13b), referenced to C3H6(g) and OO*. The value of b (=kEpox/
kODH_OO*) derived from DFT calculations (0.12) is smaller than
unity, indicating that equimolar C3H6-CH3OH reactants would
preferentially decompose OO* via reactions with CH3OH instead
of
C3H6.
Such
conclusions
are
consistent
with
epoxidation
rates that increase with increasing C3H6 pressure and reach con-
stant values only for C3H8/CH3OH ratios much larger than unity
(Fig. 3a).
These OO*-mediated routes account for only a small fraction
(<0.1) of all re-oxidation events during CH3OH ODH on NH4-POM
clusters, as shown by asymptotic (rEpox/rODH) ratios much smaller
than unity (<0.1; Fig. 4). The alternate and predominant routes
mediated by H2O2 molecules are discussed next.
3.5.2. H2O2 decomposition routes
3.5.2.1. H2O2 reactions with reduced centers. H2O2 molecules formed
via outer sphere O2 activation at H/OH* species (step 4b; Scheme 3)
can re-oxidize another reduced center (* or H/OH*) to re-form O*
(step 6a; Scheme 3), thus acting as the O-atom shuttle between
two reduced centers located beyond molecular distances. Fig. 14
shows DFT-derived free energies (453 K, 1 bar) and structures for
the intermediates and transition states that mediate these H2O2
decomposition on * or H/OH*. Free energies in both cases are refer-
enced to H2O2(g) and H/OH* species to allow a rigorous comparison
based on their rate ratios.
H2O2 decomposition on O-vacancies (*) involves molecular
adsorption of H2O2 (DGads = 3 kJ/mol; *_H2O2; Fig. 14a) and reac-
tions with a vicinal O* via a H-transfer TS (DG = 70 kJ mol1, refer-
enced to H2O2(g) and H/OH*; TS6a; Fig. 14b) to form vicinal OOH*
and OH* (OOH/H*; Fig. 14c). These two species then recombine to
form H2O(g) and O* via a H2O elimination TS (TSDehyd; Fig. 14d)
with a free energy much less than TS6a.
The decomposition of H2O2 on H/OH* without intervening
vacancy formation involves weak H2O2 adsorption (DGads = 35 kJ
mol1; H/OH*_H2O2; Fig. 14e) and a TS (DG = 84 kJ mol1, refer-
enced to H2O2(g) and H/OH*; TS0
6a; Fig. 14f) that leads to form
two adsorbed H2O molecules at vicinal O* species (O*_2H2O;
Fig. 14g). This route avoids the formation or cleavage of Mo-O
bonds, as in the case of outer sphere O2 activation on H/OH* species
(step 4a; Scheme 3).
Fig. 13. DFT-derived free energies (kJ mol1; 453 K, 1 bar) and structures of intermediates and transition states on NH4-POM involved in OO* reactions with C3H6 to form O*
and propene oxide (step 5b; Scheme 3). Free energies of OO* and C3H6(g) are taken as reference.
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
243
The relative rates for H2O2 reactions with * and H/OH* depend
on the ratios of their rate constants and on the relative abundance
of two centers; the ([*]/[H/OH*]) ratio is determined by the water
adsorption equilibrium constant on * (Kw) and the H2O pressure.
H2O2 reactions with * and H/OH* ultimately re-oxidize one reduced
center to form O*, thus completing a four-electron re-oxidation
using one O2 molecule without involving OO* intermediates; these
two H2O2 decomposition routes are shown together as step 6a in
Scheme 3.
3.5.2.2. H2O2 reactions with O* and the kinetic crossing between outer
and inner sphere O2 activation routes. DFT-derived free energies
(453 K; 1 bar) and structures of intermediates and transition states
involved in H2O2 reactions with O* to form OO* and H2O (step 6b;
Scheme 3) are shown in Fig. 15. Weakly-adsorbed H2O2 on O*
(DGads = 10 kJ mol1; O*-H2O2; Fig. 15a) forms vicinal hydroperoxo
(O-OOH) and OH* (denoted as O-OOH/H*; Fig. 15c) species in a step
mediated by a TS in which one H-atom is abstracted from H2O2 by
O* (TS6b_1; Fig. 15b). The free energy barrier is 140 kJ mol1 when
referenced to H2O2(g) and O*. These O-OOH/H* species form bound
peroxo species (OO*) and H2O via an O-insertion TS (TS6b_2;
Fig. 15d) with a free energy barrier of 158 kJ mol1 (referenced to
H2O2(g) and O*), which exhibits the highest free energy along the
reaction coordinate. This route creates a kinetic shunt between
inner and outer sphere O2 activation routes through the formation
of OO* species, typically associated with inner sphere routes (step
4a; Scheme 3), using the reaction of H2O2, formed in outer sphere
routes (step 4b; Scheme 3), with O* (step 6b; Scheme 3). Such
kinetic shunt leads, in turn, to an increase in (rEpox/rODH) ratios as
reduced centers become less prevalent and H2O2 preferentially
react with O* to form OO* species required for epoxidation events
(Section 3.4).
Asymptotic rEpox/rODH ratios much smaller than unity (<0.1;
Fig. 4) reﬂect the minor contributions by OO*-mediated routes to
re-oxidation events at typical ODH conditions. This suggests, in
turn, that the H2O2 molecules formed in the predominant O2 acti-
vation route (step 4a; Scheme 3) react predominantly with reduced
centers (* or H/OH*) instead of with O*, even when re-oxidation
events are facile and reduced centers are present as minority spe-
cies during ODH catalysis. Indeed, DFT-derived free energy barriers
for H2O2 reactions with O* to form OO* (156 kJ mol1) are much
higher than for H2O2 reactions with * (70 kJ mol1) or H/OH* (84
kJ mol1) to form O* and H2O, when referenced to the same
H2O2(g) precursor and to the respective surface species (O* or H/
OH*).
The OO* species involved in epoxidation events are formed via
inner sphere O2 activation (step 4a; Scheme 3) and via outer sphere
O2 activation and successive H2O2 reactions with O* (steps 4b and
Fig. 14. DFT-derived free energies (kJ mol1; 453 K, 1 bar) and structures of intermediates and transition states on NH4-POM involved in H2O2 reactions with a reduced center
(* or H/OH*) to form O* and H2O (step 6a; Scheme 3). The panel (a) involves the reaction with * (blue dash lines), while the panel (b) shows the reaction with H/OH * (black
solid lines). Free energies are referenced to the common H2O2(g) and H/OH* precursors.
244
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
6b; Scheme 3). A preference for OO*-mediated re-oxidation routes
is required for high epoxidation selectivities during ODH reactions,
which can be achieved by increasing rin/rout ratios (v; Eq. (11)) and
decreasing r6a/r6b ratios (c; Eq. (14)). An increase in rin/rout ratios
(v; Eq. (11)) leads to a larger fraction of reduced centers forming
to OO* species (instead of H2O2(g)) and can be achieved by operat-
ing at higher temperatures or lower H2O contents (Section 3.3.3). A
decrease in r6a/r6b ratios (c; Eq. (14)) also leads to a greater prefer-
ence for OO*-mediated routes by increasing the fraction of H2O2
molecules reacting with O* to form OO* species (and H2O) instead
of with reduced centers to form O* (and H2O). Lower * and H/OH*
coverages minimize H2O2 decomposition on such centers and lead
to the higher (r6a/r6b) ratios observed for less reactive alkanols and
or at lower CH3OH/O2 ratios (Eq. (14)).
3.6. Kinetic rate equations for CH3OH ODH and C3H6 epoxidation
Schemes 2 and 3 summarize plausible routes for the reduction
and re-oxidation parts of ODH cycles and for the scavenging reac-
tions of OO* intermediates via C3H6 epoxidation. The rate equations
for CH3OH ODH and C3H6 epoxidation are derived here, in order to
compare their consistency with kinetic data in Figs. 3 and 9 and to
estimate rate parameters for the elementary steps.
The steps in Schemes 2 and 3, taken together with the assump-
tions about their reversibility, discussed in detail in the previous
sections, lead to rate equations for CH3OH ODH and C3H6 epoxida-
tion (listed in Scheme 4). The derivation of the rate equations is
discussed here. Steps 2 (Scheme 2) and 5a (Scheme 3) both form
ODH products, leading to a combined ODH rate (rODH) given by:
rODH ¼ k
0
ODHPCH3OH O
½
 þ kODH OOPCH3OH OO
½

ð17Þ
k0ODH and kODH_OO* denote ﬁrst-order rate constants for step 2
(Scheme 2) and step 5a (Scheme 3), respectively. C3H6 epoxidation
rates (rEpox) depend on the rate constant (kEpox) for step 5b
(Scheme 3), the C3H6 pressure, and the concentration of OO* species
(Eq. (6)). The steady-state [OO*] concentration is given by (deriva-
tion in Section S10):
OO
½
 ¼
kin
KwPH2O þ
kout
1þa
k0
ODHPCH3OH
2koutPO2
0
@
1
A k0
ODHPCH3OH
2kout
kODH OOPCH3OH þ kEpoxPC3H6
O
½
;
ð18Þ
for the case of re-oxidation predominantly mediated via steps 4b
and 6a (Scheme 3), as is evident from the small asymptotic rEpox/
rODH values at high C3H8/CH3OH ratios (Fig. 4). Here, KW denotes
the equilibrium constant for step 3 (Scheme 3) and kin and kout
are the ﬁrst-order rate constants for inner and outer sphere O2 acti-
vation route (steps 4a and 4b; Scheme 3). The ratio of rate constants
for H2O2 reactions with reduced and oxidized centers is given by a
(Eq. (12)). When reduced centers and bound O2-derived species are
present as minority surface species, the site balance gives an
expression for [O*]:
O
½
 ¼
1
1 þ KCH3OHPCH3OH þ KH2OPH2O þ KC3H6PC3H6
ð19Þ
The denominator terms reﬂect the relative surface concentra-
tions of (O*), (CH3OH-O*), (H2O-O*), (C3H6-O*), in the order that
they appear.
The substitution of Eqs. (18) and (19) into Eqs. (17) and (6) leads
to ODH and epoxidation rate equations (Scheme 4). The regression
of the kinetic data in Figs. 3 and 9 to the functional form of these
rate equations gives the groups of equilibrium and rate constants
listed in Scheme 4. These CH3OH ODH and C3H6 epoxidation rate
equations accurately describe all rate data, as shown by the dashed
curves in Figs. 3 and 9. Parity plots for ODH and epoxidation rates
are shown in Fig. S13. Without C3H6 co-reactants, the CH3OH ODH
rate equation (Scheme 4) simpliﬁes to Eq. (5) when re-oxidation
events predominantly occur via steps 4b and 6a (Scheme 3).
4. Conclusions
C3H6 molecules are used to scavenge bound O2-derived species
formed during the re-oxidation part of Mars-van Krevelen catalytic
cycles for alkanol ODH on solid oxides. The effects of C3H6, H2O,
CH3OH, and O2 pressures and the reactivity of alkanols on alkanol
ODH and C3H6 epoxidation rates and their rate ratios are analyzed
to provide insights on kinetic networks and elementary steps
involved in re-oxidation routes and on the involvement of O2-
derived species for O-insertion reactions. Such experiments are
combined with DFT treatments of free energies of relevant inter-
mediates and transition states to address the types of O2-derived
species mediating re-oxidation routes and the relative rates of
their formations and decompositions.
C3H6 epoxidation products are detected in O2-C3H6 mixtures
only when alkanols are also present in reactant streams and they
undergo ODH reactions. Such coupling of ODH and epoxidation
reactions suggests that reduced centers formed via alkanol ODH
act as reactants for O2 activation that leads to the formation of
Fig. 15. DFT-derived free energies (kJ mol1; 453 K, 1 bar) and structures of intermediates and transition states on NH4-POM involved in H2O2 reactions with an oxidized
center (O*) to form OO* and H2O(g) (step 6b; Scheme 3). Free energies of H2O2(g) and O* are taken as reference.
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
245
electrophilic dioxygen species required for epoxidation. These
mechanistic interpretations are consistent with inner sphere O2
activation routes mediated by bound peroxo (OO*) species, which
are ubiquitous in homogeneous POM catalysis, electro-catalysis
and bio-catalysis with monooxygenase enzymes. The contributions
of these OO*-mediated routes to re-oxidation events, however, are
minor for Mo-based NH4-POM clusters, as evidenced by epoxida-
tion to ODH rate ratios that were much less than unity (<0.1) at
all relevant conditions.
The alternative and predominant re-oxidation routes involve
proton-coupled electron-transfers from reduced centers (H/OH*)
to O2 to form H2O2, which can easily desorb and re-oxidize another
reduced center (* or H/OH*) to form O* (and H2O). The H2O2 mole-
cules can also react with an oxidized center (O*) to form OO* spe-
cies (and H2O), creating a kinetic shunt between inner and outer
sphere O2 activation routes; this shunt leads to higher epoxidation
to ODH rate ratios at lower reduced center concentrations.
Unlike H2O2 molecules, which can desorb and act as a molecular
shuttle to carry extra O-atoms between surface species that pre-
sent at distances larger than molecular dimensions, reactions of
bound OO* species with non-vicinal reduced centers require kinet-
ically demanding O-hopping steps that must occur several times to
reach an O* center vicinal to the reduced center. OO* species
instead can react with a gas-phase reactant, alkanol (CH3OH) and
alkene (C3H6), to ultimately re-form O* and form ODH and epoxida-
tion products; these routes present much lower activation barriers
than conventional O-hopping mechanisms.
Kinetic analyses on the ODH and scavenging epoxidation reac-
tions, and their seamless combination with DFT calculations of
their elementary steps construct a general conceptual framework
for the analysis of redox reactions that have been refractory to
probes of re-oxidation mechanisms. In doing so, we show the re-
oxidation routes that prefer molecular donor (H2O2) or acceptor
(CH3OH and C3H6) to perform sequential two-electron oxidation
events occurring at distant locations, instead of the kinetically-
demanding O-hopping routes. Epoxidation routes uncovered in
this work also open possibilities of kinetically coupling two oxida-
tion reactions, alkanol ODH and epoxidation, to utilize both of the
O-atoms in O2 molecule. Such routes, upon further optimization,
may provide an economic process to perform epoxidation without
requiring expensive oxidants, such as H2O2 and organic peroxides.
Acknowledgements
The authors thank Drs. Gina Noh and Yongchun Hong for their
thoughtful discussions and proofreading of the manuscript. This
work is supported by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Ofﬁce
of Science, Ofﬁce of Basic Energy Sciences (Contract Number
DE-AC05-76RL0-1830). DFT calculations were performed using
computer resources provided by Environmental Molecular Science
Laboratory
(EMSL)
at
Paciﬁc
Northwest
National
Laboratory
(PNNL), a DOE Ofﬁce of Science User Facility under the project
number of 48772, and by Extreme Science and Engineering
Discovery Environment (XSEDE), which is supported by the
National Science Foundation under the grant allocation numbers
of CTS150005, CTS160011 and CHE140066.
Appendix A. Supplementary material
Reaction networks of alkanol-O2 reactions on bifunctional cata-
lysts; effects of NH3 titrations of acid sites on CH3OH dehydration
and ODH rates; time-on-stream CH3OH dehydration and ODH rates
before and after introduction of C3H6 co-feed on H-POM; time-on-
stream CH3OH ODH, and C3H6 epoxidation rates on NH4-POM;
CH3OH ODH product selectivities on NH4-POM as a function of
CH3OH conversions; the values of rate and equilibrium constants
for
CH3OH
ODH,
DFT-derived
reactivity-averaged
HAE,
H-
abstraction free energy barriers and CH3OH adsorption free energy
changes on H-POM and NH4-POM; product selectivities of C3H6
conversions during CH3OH-O2-C3H6 reactions as a function of
C3H6 conversions; effects of H2O on CH3OH ODH rates; acetone for-
mation rates from O2-C3H6-H2O reactions on NH4-POM; C3H6 con-
version and epoxidation rates from CH3OH-O2-C3H6-H2O reactions
on NH4-POM; spin density maps for the OOH intermediate; DFT-
derived structures of transition states involved in outer sphere O2
activation routes; DFT-derived HAE on two-electron reduced H-
POM cluster; DFT-derived structures of transition states involved
in reactions of OO* with CH3OH; DFT-derived entropies, enthalpies,
and Gibbs free energies for intermediates and transition states
involved re-oxidation steps in Scheme 3; derivations of rate equa-
tions for CH3OH ODH and C3H6 epoxidation; a comparison of CH3-
OH ODH and C3H6 epoxidation rates from the model and
experiment. Supplementary data associated with this article can
be found, in the online version, at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.
2018.05.016.
References
[1] T. Punniyamurthy, S. Velusamy, J. Iqbal, Recent advances in transition metal
catalyzed oxidation of organic substrates with molecular oxygen, Chem. Rev.
105 (2005) 2329–2363, https://doi.org/10.1021/cr050523v.
[2] H.H. Kung, Oxidative dehydrogenation of light (C2 to C4) alkanes, Adv. Catal.
40 (1994) 1–38, https://doi.org/10.1016/S0360-0564(08)60655-0.
[3] P. Deshlahra, R.T. Carr, S.-H. Chai, E. Iglesia, Mechanistic details and reactivity
descriptors in oxidation and acid catalysis of methanol, ACS Catal. 5 (2015)
666–682, https://doi.org/10.1021/cs501599y.
[4] K. Chen, E. Iglesia, A.T. Bell, Isotopic tracer studies of reaction pathways for
propane oxidative dehydrogenation on molybdenum oxide catalysts, J. Phys.
Chem. B. 105 (2001) 646–653, https://doi.org/10.1021/jp002100x.
[5] H. Feng, J.W. Elam, J.A. Libera, M.J. Pellin, P.C. Stair, Oxidative dehydrogenation
of cyclohexane over alumina-supported vanadium oxide nanoliths, J. Catal.
269 (2010) 421–431, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2009.11.026.
[6] Z. Skoufa, E. Heracleous, a.a. Lemonidou, On ethane ODH mechanism and
nature of active sites over NiO-based catalysts via isotopic labeling and
methanol sorption studies, J. Catal 322 (2015) 118–129, https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.jcat.2014.11.014.
[7] M.D. Argyle, K. Chen, C. Resini, C. Krebs, A.T. Bell, E. Iglesia, Extent of reduction
of vanadium oxides during catalytic oxidation of alkanes measured by in-situ
UVvisible spectroscopy, J. Phys. Chem. B. 108 (2004) 2345–2353, https://doi.
org/10.1021/jp030989m.
[8] H. Liu, E. Iglesia, Selective oxidation of methanol and ethanol on supported
ruthenium oxide clusters at low temperatures, J. Phys. Chem. B. 109 (2005)
2155–2163, https://doi.org/10.1021/jp0401980.
[9] P. Deshlahra, E. Iglesia, Methanol oxidative dehydrogenation on oxide
catalysts: molecular and dissociative routes and hydrogen addition energies
as descriptors of reactivity, J. Phys. Chem. C 118 (2014) 26115–26129, https://
doi.org/10.1021/jp507922u.
[10] P. Deshlahra, E. Iglesia, Reactivity and selectivity descriptors for the activation
of C-H bonds in hydrocarbons and oxygenates on metal oxides, J. Phys. Chem.
C 120 (2016) 16741–16760, https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b04604.
[11] X. Rozanska, E. Kondratenko, J. Sauer, Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane:
differences between N2O and O2 in the reoxidation of reduced vanadia sites
and consequences for selectivity, J. Catal. 256 (2008) 84–94, https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.jcat.2008.03.002.
[12] Y.V. Geletii, C.L. Hill, R.H. Atalla, I.A. Weinstock, Reduction of O2 to superoxide
anion (O2
) in water by heteropolytungstate cluster-anions, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
128 (2006) 17033–17042, https://doi.org/10.1021/ja064244g.
[13] M. Kim, I.A. Weinstock, Y.V. Geletii, C.L. Hill, Oxidation of reduced Keggin
heteropolytungstates by dioxygen in water catalyzed by Cu(II), ACS Catal. 5
(2015) 7048–7054, https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b01771.
[14] D.C. Duncan, C.L. Hill, Mechanism of reaction of reduced polyoxometalates
with O2 evaluated by 17O NMR, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 119 (1997) 243–244, https://
doi.org/10.1021/ja9627860.
[15] M.H. Sazinsky, S.J. Lippard, Correlating structure with function in bacterial
multicomponent monooxygenases and related diiron proteins, Acc. Chem. Res.
39 (2006) 558–566, https://doi.org/10.1021/ar030204v.
[16] H. Basch, K. Mogi, D.G. Musaev, K. Morokuma, Mechanism of the methane ?
methanol conversion reaction catalyzed by methane monooxygenase: a
density functional study, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 121 (1999) 7249–7256, https://
doi.org/10.1021/ja9906296.
[17] C.H. Kjaergaard, M.F. Qayyum, S.D. Wong, F. Xu, G.R. Hemsworth, D.J. Walton,
et al., Spectroscopic and computational insight into the activation of O2 by the
mononuclear Cu center in polysaccharide monooxygenases, Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. 111 (2014) 8797–8802, https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1408115111.
246
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
[18] J. Cho, R. Sarangi, J. Annaraj, S.Y. Kim, M. Kubo, T. Ogura, et al., Geometric and
electronic structure and reactivity of a mononuclear side-on nickel(iii)-peroxo
complex, Nat. Chem. 1 (2009) 568–572, https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.366.
[19] M.D. Argyle, K. Chen, E. Iglesia, A.T. Bell, In situ UV-visible spectroscopic
measurements of kinetic parameters and active sites for catalytic oxidation of
alkanes on vanadium oxides, J. Phys. Chem. B. 109 (2005) 2414–2420, https://
doi.org/10.1021/jp040166c.
[20] A. Goodrow, A.T. Bell, A theoretical investigation of the selective oxidation of
methanol to formaldehyde on isolated vanadate species supported on silica, J.
Phys. Chem. C 111 (2007) 14753–14761, https://doi.org/10.1021/jp072627a.
[21] R. Neumann, M. Levin, Aerobic oxidative dehydrogenations catalyzed by the
mixed-addenda heteropolyanion PV2Molo0405-: a kinetic and mechanistic
study,
J.
Am.
Chem.
Soc.
114
(1992)
7278–7286,
https://doi.org/
10.1021/ja00044a044.
[22] D.C. Ashley, D.W. Brinkley, J.P. Roth, Oxygen isotope effects as structural and
mechanistic probes in inorganic oxidation chemistry, Inorg. Chem. 49 (2010)
3661–3675, https://doi.org/10.1021/ic901778g.
[23] M. Iwasaki, E. Iglesia, Mechanistic assessments of NO oxidation turnover rates
and active site densities on WO3-promoted CeO2 catalysts, J. Catal. 342 (2016)
84–97, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2016.07.011.
[24] Z. Wu, M. Li, J. Howe, H.M. Meyer, S.H. Overbury, Probing defect sites on CeO2
nanocrystals with well-deﬁned surface planes by Raman spectroscopy and O2
adsorption,
Langmuir
26
(2010)
16595–16606,
https://doi.org/10.1021/
la101723w.
[25] J.E. Molinari, L. Nakka, T. Kim, I.E. Wachs, Dynamic surface structures and
reactivity of
vanadium-containing
molybdophosphoric
acid
(H3+xPMo12–
xVxO40) Keggin catalysts during methanol oxidation and dehydration, ACS
Catal. 1 (2011) 1536–1548, https://doi.org/10.1021/cs2001362.
[26] H. Weiner, R.G. Finke, An All-Inorganic, Polyoxometalate-based catechol
dioxygenase that exhibits >100,000 catalytic turnovers, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
121 (1999) 9831–9842, https://doi.org/10.1021/ja991503b.
[27] R. Neumann, Activation of molecular oxygen, polyoxometalates, and liquid-
phase catalytic oxidation, Inorg. Chem. 49 (2010) 3594–3601, https://doi.org/
10.1021/ic9015383.
[28] N. Mizuno, H. Weiner, R.G. Finke, Co-oxidative epoxidation of cyclohexene
with molecular oxygen, isobutyraldehyde reductant, and the polyoxoanion-
supported catalyst precursor [(n-C4H9)4N]5Na3[(1,5-COD)IrP2W15Nb3O62], J.
Mol. Catal. A Chem. 114 (1996) 15–28, https://doi.org/10.1016/S1381-1169
(96)00301-9.
[29] D.C. Duncan, R.C. Chambers, E. Hecht, C.L. Hill, Mechanism and dynamics in the
H-3[Pw12O40]-catalyzed selective epoxidation of terminal oleﬁns by H2O2 -
formation, reactivity, and stability of (Po4[Wo(O-2)(2)](4))(3-), J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 117 (1995) 681–691, https://doi.org/10.1021/ja00107a012.
[30] J.R. Rustad, J.S. Loring, W.H. Casey, Oxygen-exchange pathways in aluminum
polyoxocations, Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta. 68 (2004) 3011–3017, https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.gca.2003.12.021.
[31] N. Mizuno, K. Kamata, Catalytic oxidation of hydrocarbons with hydrogen
peroxide by vanadium-based polyoxometalates, Coord. Chem. Rev. 255 (2011)
2358–2370, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccr.2011.01.041.
[32] T. Imanaka, Y. Okamoto, S. Teranishi, The isomerization of propylene oxide on
zeolite catalysts, Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 45 (1972) 3251–3254, https://doi.org/
10.1246/bcsj.45.3251.
[33] J.P. Perdew, J.A. Chevary, S.H. Vosko, K.A. Jackson, M.R. Pederson, D.J. Singh,
et al., Atoms, molecules, solids, and surfaces: applications of the generalized
gradient approximation for exchange and correlation, Phys. Rev. B. 46 (1992)
6671–6687, https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.48.4978.2.
[34] G. Kresse, J. Hafner, Ab initio molecular-dynamics simulation of liquid-metal-
amorphous-semiconductor transition in germanium, Phys. Rev. B. 49 (1994)
14251–14269.
[35] G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, Efﬁcient iterative schemes for ab initio total-energy
calculations using a plane-wave basis set, Phys. Rev. B 54 (1996) 11169–
11186. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9984901.
[36] G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, Efﬁciency of ab-initio total energy calculations for
metals and semiconductors using a plane-wave basis set, Comput. Mater. Sci. 6
(1996) 15–50.
[37] P.E. Blöchl, Projector augmented-wave method, Phys. Rev. B. 50 (1994) 17953–
17979.
[38] G. Kresse, D. Joubert, From ultrasoft pseudopotentials to the projector
augmented-wave method, Phys. Rev. B. 59 (1999) 1758–1775.
[39] H.J. Monkhorst, J.D. Pack, Special points for Brillouin-zone integrations, Phys.
Rev. B. 13 (1976) 5188–5192.
[40] G. Makov, M.C. Payne, Periodic boundary conditions in ab initio calculations,
Phys. Rev. B. 51 (1995) 4014–4022, https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.51.4014.
[41] G. Henkelman, B.P. Uberuaga, H. Jonsson, A climbing image nudged elastic
band method for ﬁnding saddle points and minimum energy paths, J. Chem.
Phys. 113 (2000) 9901–9904.
[42] G. Henkelman, H. Jónsson, A dimer method for ﬁnding saddle points on high
dimensional potential surfaces using only ﬁrst derivatives, J. Chem. Phys. 111
(1999) 7010–7022, https://doi.org/10.1063/1.480097.
[43] C.T. Campbell, J.R.V. Sellers, Enthalpies and entropies of adsorption on well-
deﬁned oxide surfaces: experimental measurements, Chem. Rev. 113 (2013)
4106–4135, https://doi.org/10.1021/cr4003853.
[44] V. Shapovalov, T. Fievez, A.T. Bell, A theoretical study of methanol oxidation
catalyzed by isolated vanadia clusters supported on the (101) surface of
anatase, J. Phys. Chem. C 116 (2012) 18728–18735, https://doi.org/10.1021/
jp302862q.
[45] N. Mizuno, K. Yamaguchi, K. Kamata, Epoxidation of oleﬁns with hydrogen
peroxide catalyzed by polyoxometalates, Coord. Chem. Rev. 249 (2005) 1944–
1956, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccr.2004.11.019.
[46] R. Prabhakar, K. Morokuma, C.L. Hill, D.G. Musaev, Insights into the mechanism
of selective oleﬁn epoxidation catalyzed by [gamma-(SiO4)W10O32H4]4. A
computational study, Inorg. Chem. 45 (2006) 5703–5709, https://doi.org/
10.1021/ic060725p.
[47] Y. Leng, J. Wang, D. Zhu, M. Zhang, P. Zhao, Z. Long, et al., Polyoxometalate-
based amino-functionalized ionic solid catalysts lead to highly efﬁcient
heterogeneous epoxidation of alkenes with H2O2, Green Chem. 13 (2011)
1636, https://doi.org/10.1039/c1gc15302a.
[48] M.P. Lanci, D.W. Brinkley, K.L. Stone, V.V. Smirnov, J.P. Roth, Structures of
transition states in metal-mediated O2-activation reactions, Angew. Chem. Int.
Ed. Engl. 44 (2005) 7273–7276, https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.200502096.
[49] B.V. Popp, J.E. Wendlandt, C.R. Landis, S.S. Stahl, Reaction of molecular oxygen
with
an
NHC-coordinated
Pd0
complex:
computational
insights
and
experimental implications, Angew. Chem. – Int. Ed. 46 (2007) 601–604,
https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.200603667.
[50] H. Yu, Y. Fu, Q. Guo, Z. Lin, DFT studies on reactions of transition metal
complexes with O2, Organometallics 28 (2009) 4443–4451, https://doi.org/
10.1021/om9002957.
[51] N.N. Greenwood, A. Earnshaw, Chemistry of the Elements, second ed.,
Butterworth Heinemann, Burlington, MA, 2002.
[52] M.H. Dickman, M.T. Pope, Peroxo and superoxo complexes of chromium,
molybdenum, and tungsten, Chem. Rev. 94 (1994) 569–584, https://doi.org/
10.1021/cr00027a002.
[53] C.N. Satterﬁeld, T.W. Stein, Decomposition of hydrogen peroxide vapor on
relatively inert surfaces, Ind. Eng. Chem. 49 (1957) 1173–1180.
[54] Y.-R. Luo, Comprehensive Handbook of Chemical Bond Energies, CRC Press,
Boca Raton, FL, 2007.
S. Kwon et al. / Journal of Catalysis 364 (2018) 228–247
247
