This article was downloaded by: [University of Wyoming Libraries]
On: 27 September 2013, At: 01:49
Publisher: Taylor & Francis
Informa Ltd Registered in England and Wales Registered Number: 1072954 Registered
office: Mortimer House, 37-41 Mortimer Street, London W1T 3JH, UK
Catalysis Reviews: Science and
Engineering
Publication details, including instructions for authors and
subscription information:
http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/lctr20
A Critical Assessment of Li/MgO-Based
Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of
Methane
Sebastian Arndt a , Guillaume Laugel a , Sergey Levchenko b ,
Raimund Horn c , Manfred Baerns c , Matthias Scheffler b , Robert
Schlögl c & Reinhard Schomäcker a
a Technical University Berlin, Department of Chemistry, Berlin,
Germany
b Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society, Theory
Department, Berlin, Germany
c Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society, Department of
Inorganic Chemistry, Berlin, Germany
Published online: 27 Oct 2011.
To cite this article: Sebastian Arndt , Guillaume Laugel , Sergey Levchenko , Raimund Horn , Manfred
Baerns , Matthias Scheffler , Robert Schlögl & Reinhard Schomäcker (2011) A Critical Assessment
of Li/MgO-Based Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane, Catalysis Reviews: Science and
Engineering, 53:4, 424-514, DOI: 10.1080/01614940.2011.613330
To link to this article:  http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01614940.2011.613330
PLEASE SCROLL DOWN FOR ARTICLE
Taylor & Francis makes every effort to ensure the accuracy of all the information (the
“Content”) contained in the publications on our platform. However, Taylor & Francis,
our agents, and our licensors make no representations or warranties whatsoever as to
the accuracy, completeness, or suitability for any purpose of the Content. Any opinions
and views expressed in this publication are the opinions and views of the authors,
and are not the views of or endorsed by Taylor & Francis. The accuracy of the Content
should not be relied upon and should be independently verified with primary sources
of information. Taylor and Francis shall not be liable for any losses, actions, claims,
proceedings, demands, costs, expenses, damages, and other liabilities whatsoever or
howsoever caused arising directly or indirectly in connection with, in relation to or arising
out of the use of the Content.
This article may be used for research, teaching, and private study purposes. Any
substantial or systematic reproduction, redistribution, reselling, loan, sub-licensing,
systematic supply, or distribution in any form to anyone is expressly forbidden. Terms &
Conditions of access and use can be found at http://www.tandfonline.com/page/terms-
and-conditions
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Catalysis Reviews: Science and Engineering, 53:424–514, 2011
Copyright © Taylor & Francis Group, LLC
ISSN: 0161-4940 print / 1520-5703 online
DOI: 10.1080/01614940.2011.613330
A Critical Assessment
of Li/MgO-Based Catalysts
for the Oxidative Coupling
of Methane
Sebastian Arndt1, Guillaume Laugel1, Sergey Levchenko2,
Raimund Horn3, Manfred Baerns3, Matthias Schefﬂer2, Robert
Schlögl3, and Reinhard Schomäcker1
1Technical University Berlin, Department of Chemistry, Berlin, Germany
2Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society, Theory Department, Berlin,
Germany
3Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck Society, Department of Inorganic Chemistry,
Berlin, Germany
Li/MgO is one of the most frequently investigated catalysts for the oxidative coupling
of methane. Besides catalytic testing, it is also a suitable system to perform surface
science experiments and quantum chemical calculations, which is not possible for many
other active catalysts. However, the real structure of Li/MgO, the nature of the active
center and the structure - activity relationship remain unclear, despite all the research
that has been done. The aim of this review is to summarize the available knowledge
on Li/MgO to structure and accelerate and improve the ongoing work on this catalytic
system.
Keywords
Li/MgO, Oxidative coupling of methane, Oxidative dehydrogenation of
ethane, OCM, ODH
1. INTRODUCTION
The resources of natural gas rival those of crude oil. The composition of nat-
ural gas depends on its origin, but the main component is always methane.
Therefore, there is a large economical interest in making methane available as
a carbon source for the chemical industry.
Received February 23, 2011; accepted July 26, 2011.
Address
correspondence
to
Reinhard
Schomäcker,
Technical
University
Berlin,
Department of Chemistry, Strasse des 17. Juni 124, Berlin 10623, Germany.
424
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 425
A direct way for the conversion of methane into value added products is the
oxidative coupling (OCM) to ethane or ethylene. The overall pathway is shown
in Reaction 1. This reaction has attracted a lot of attention since the funda-
mental work of Keller and Bhasin and Hinsen and Baerns (1, 2). However,
until now no economically viable process has been put into practice despite all
efforts (3–6).
CH4 + 1/2O2 →1/2C2H4 + H2O
(1)
rH∅(800 ◦C) = −139 kJ/mol
rG∅(800 ◦C) = −153 kJ/mol
The coupling of methane without an oxidant is a highly endothermic
reaction and due to thermodynamic constraint the conversion is limited.
By introducing an oxidizing agent, the process becomes exothermic and the
thermodynamic restrictions can be overcome. However, from a thermody-
namic point of view, the partial oxidation (Reaction 2) and the total oxidation
(Reaction 3) are thermodynamically much more favored than the oxidative
coupling of methane.
CH4 + 3/2O2 →CO + 2H2O
(2)
rH
∅
(800 ◦C) = −519 kJ/mol
rG
∅
(800 ◦C) = −611 kJ/mol
CH4 + 2O2 →CO2 + 2H2O
(3)
rH
∅
(800 ◦C) = −801 kJ/mol
rG
∅
(800 ◦C) = −801 kJ/mol
To obtain reasonable yields of C2 hydrocarbons (C2H6 and C2H4), the reac-
tion must be controlled kinetically. For this, suitable catalysts are necessary.
However, the known catalysts are not very active at low temperatures; thus,
the reaction requires temperatures between 700–900 ◦C, which leads to low
yields (due to consecutive COx formation) and severe catalyst deactivation (due
to decomposition or sintering, caused by the high reaction temperatures).
In the past, the research strategy was often characterized by random test-
ing of catalysts with a focus on maximization of the C2 yield. This strategy has
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
426 S. Arndt et al.
not led to a ﬁnal breakthrough with respect to high selectivity and yield of C2
hydrocarbons. Thus, studying only one catalytic system to understand the rea-
sons for these limitations in detail is necessary. The outcome of this research
may be the basis for further efforts in optimizing catalyst formulations and
maximizing catalyst performance. At a later stage, high throughput testing of
numerous different catalysts may be of advantage. A combinatorial approach
could also be a suitable strategy to establish a structure activity relationship,
as recently reported (7).
In the search for better catalysts, hundreds of materials have been
tested. Li-doped MgO showed higher performance than most other materials.
Lunsford et al. were among the ﬁrst to publish extensive details about this
catalytic system (8–10). Li-doped MgO was and still is the object of intensive
studies for several research groups. Studies on MgO doped with other alkali
metals did not lead to better catalysts (11–16).
In spite of all the research that has been done, many aspects remain
unclear. As it will be outlined in this review, the active center, the maximum
solubility of Li in the MgO lattice, the position and nature of Li in the MgO,
the stability of the catalyst, and many other questions are still not answered,
despite the substantial amount of literature published on this topic. Therefore,
identifying the points that need further investigation is not easy. The aim of
this article is to summarize the existing knowledge on Li/MgO and point out
problems and unclarities that need further investigation.
Moreover, it is possible to perform quantum chemical studies and surface
science experiments on Li-doped MgO, which is a rather difﬁcult task for many
other catalysts. Such studies will identify the role and importance of different
surface species within the catalytic reaction pathway. This information will
be used for the design of catalysts with better performance. A very important
question is the presence of species that contribute to unselective reactions, that
should be avoided.
This publication focuses on Li/MgO and where necessary on MgO. Further
additives on Li/MgO are only discussed in Section 6. Engineering aspects are
not within the scope of this publication, although a variety of reports exist
dealing with the engineering aspects of Li/MgO (17–27).
2.
PREPARATION OF LI/MGO CATALYSTS
The preparation of the Li/MgO catalyst is crucial for its performance and many
different methods have been used as described below.
2.1.
Wet Impregnation
In the ﬁrst publications from the Lunsford group (8–10), a suspension
of Li2CO3 in deionized H2O was added to MgO. The slurry was stirred and
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 427
heated until a thick paste remained, which was dried overnight at 140 ◦C.
The obtained material was calcined for one to several hours at temperatures
between 450 and 465 ◦C under ﬂow of O2.
Korf et al. synthesized Li/MgO via wet impregnation of MgO with an aque-
ous solution of LiOH (28). The procedure was done under a stream of CO2 for
some samples. Afterwards, the samples were dried at 140 ◦C, calcined in air at
various temperatures, and then crushed and sieved.
Matsuura et al. prepared Li/MgO via adding Li2O to a suspension of ultra
ﬁne crystalline MgO in C2H5OH, followed by drying at 78 ◦C and calcination
at 740 ◦C for 4 h. The use of ultra ﬁne crystalline MgO resulted in a catalyst
with an exceptionally high activity for the OCM (29).
Choudhary and co-workers reported a highly stable Li/MgO, which showed
no deactivation for 15 h on stream (temperature: 750 ◦C; feed gas composi-
tion: CH4:O2 = 4:1; ﬂow rate: 85 ml/min) (30). This Li/MgO was prepared
by impregnation of Mg(CH3COO)2 with aqueous Li(CH3COO) and subsequent
calcination. The stability was attributed to the high content of CO2, which
reduced the loss of Li and improved the resistance against sintering of the
catalyst.
The Li precursor was reported to play an important role in the nature of
the surface species and the development of the speciﬁc surface of the Li/MgO
catalyst (31–33). Also the precursors for MgO (which was either obtained by
thermal decomposition of hydroxy carbonates or the precipitation of nitrates)
had an inﬂuence on the Li/MgO, indicating a “memory” effect of the catalyst
with regard to the MgO precursor.
Choudhary et al. studied the inﬂuence of the precursors for Li2O and MgO
for the surface and catalytic properties of Li/MgO in more detail (34). They
prepared the catalysts by thorough mixing of the precursor powders in deion-
ized H2O. The precursors for Li were nitrate, ethanoate, and carbonate. For
MgO, the precursors were nitrate, ethanoate, carbonate, oxide, and hydroxides
(MgO from Mg(OH)2 was prepared using different Mg salts and precipitation
agents). The amount of added water was just sufﬁcient to form a thick paste.
Subsequent drying at 120 ◦C for 4 h and calcination at 750 ◦C for 6 h followed.
The CH4 conversion, the C2 yield (C2H6 + C2H4), and the C2+ yield (C2H6 +
C2H4 + higher hydrocarbons), comprising the formation of C2H6 and C2H4 for
C2 and the formation of all hydrocarbons in the case of C2+, were reported
for different temperatures, feed gas compositions, and gas ﬂows. In Figure 1
the reported data as described in Tables 4 and 6 of reference (34) are plotted.
The precursors for Li2O and MgO had a strong effect on the surface area, the
basicity, the CO2 content, and the catalytic performance, but a strong vari-
ation of the catalytic results was not observed. However, a direct relationship
between these factors could not be observed. In agreement with other groups, it
was found that catalysts with a high CO2 content showed a better performance
in the OCM.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
428 S. Arndt et al.
Figure 1: Left Part: The applied reaction conditions were 100 mg catalyst, CH4/O2 ratio 8.0,
and a gas ﬂow of 8.6 ml/min. The green circles were obtained at 650 ◦C, the red squares at
750 ◦C. The selectivity was calculated from the formula SC2+ = YC2+/XCH4. The plotted data are
derived from Table 4 of (34). Variations cannot be observed. Right Part: The applied reaction
conditions were 100 mg catalyst, temperature of 750 ◦C, and a gas ﬂow of 17.1 ml/min. The
blue diamonds were obtained at a CH4 to O2 ratio of 3.0 and the black triangles at a CH4 to
O2 ratio of 8.0. The selectivity was calculated from the formula SC2+ = YC2+/XCH4. The plotted
data are taken from Table 6 of (34). Strong variations of the results can also not be observed
(color ﬁgure available online).
Kuo and co-workers tried to increase the speciﬁc surface area of the
Li/MgO via adding charcoal during the preparation (using a wet impreg-
nation procedure of MgO with Li2CO3) and subsequent burning off during
the calcination (35). Indeed, the result was that the addition of charcoal did
increase the surface area and it also modiﬁed the morphology of the Li/MgO;
however, no major improvement in terms of the yield was achieved.
2.2.
Molecular Mixing
López et al. prepared Li-doped MgO via a sol-gel method. They studied
the effect of the pH value on the surface hydroxylation and characterized
the prepared MgO (36). It was found that Li/MgO catalysts prepared via the
sol-gel method had comparable activities to Li/MgO catalysts prepared by
wet impregnation of commercial MgO, but signiﬁcantly higher C2 selectivities
(37, 38).
Trionfetti and co-workers showed that via sol-gel synthesis a high surface-
area, nano-scale Li/MgO could be prepared, with low Li loadings (39, 40). This
procedure limited the formation of separate Li phases, therefore, suppressing
sintering and loss of surface area during thermal treatment. Furthermore, the
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 429
Figure 2: The preparation of heterobimetallic magnesium lithium alkoxide clusters, which are
then thermally decomposed to Li/MgO. Changed Figure adapted from (43, 44).
application of high temperatures to incorporate Li into the MgO lattice could
be avoided. It was reported that it had a strongly improved activity for the
oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of C3H8 compared to Li/MgO prepared via
wet impregnation.
A co-precipitation procedure was described by Roussy and co-workers (41).
To an aqueous solution of Mg(NO3)2 and LiOH, oxalic acid was added until
a pH of 2.2 was reached. The precipitate was obtained and dried at 120 ◦C
and calcined at 750 ◦C under argon for 24 h. The catalytic performance was
compared for the cases of classical and micro-wave heating, showing a high
improvement of the selectivity in the case of micro-wave heating.
Chevalier et al. applied a surface organo-metallic approach for the prepara-
tion of Li/MgO (42). The Li is introduced to the MgO surface via Li-neopentyl,
as shown in Reaction 4.
Li-Neopentyl + MgSurface −OH →MgSurface −O −Li + Neopentyl −H.
(4)
In contrast to Lunsford, the applied preparation procedure led to a pre-
cursor catalyst, which did not contain anions such as carbonate species. The
prepared catalyst was more active but less selective towards the formation of
C2 products than the Lunsford catalyst.
The group of Dreiss applied a single source precursors approach. They pre-
pared magnesium alkoxide clusters, which were thermally decomposed. The
substitution of a Mg atom for a Li atom in one corner of the cubane, led to
the formation of Li/MgO (43, 44). A reaction scheme of the cubane synthe-
sis is shown in Figure 2. The prepared material was characterized in detail;
however, its catalytic performance is presently under investigation.
2.3.
Other Methods
Berger et al. applied chemical vapor deposition (CVD) for the preparation
of Li-doped MgO nanoparticles (45).
The addition of SiO2 to Li/MgO via hydrothermal treatment led to basic
magnesium hydrosilicates. If the added amount of silica was not too large
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
430 S. Arndt et al.
(Si/MgO ratio of 0.0 to 1.2), the catalyst became more active and selective
towards C2H4, however, the overall C2+ selectivity remained unchanged. The
addition of SiO2 reduced the evaporation of Li and increased the speciﬁc
surface area, which resulted in a more stable catalyst (46).
Sarkas and co-workers prepared unsupported nanocrystalline Li/MgO
using an inert gas condensation-based smoke source and applied it in the
oxidative coupling of methane (47). One sample showed total oxidation activ-
ity already at 300 ◦C, a temperature where conventional catalysts are still not
active.
Choudhary et al. synthesized Li/MgO supported on commonly used sup-
ports, such as Al2O3, ZrO2, HfO2, SiC, and SiO2 containing materials (48).
Conversion and selectivity were approximately reduced by a factor of 3,
compared to unsupported Li/MgO. This observation was attributed to the
reduction of the surface basicity, which could be an effect of a strong interac-
tion of the supported material with the support. With Al2O3, SiO2, and ZrO2,
the formation of mixed oxides containing Li or MgO was found, indicating that
these materials are not suitable as inert carriers.
The gel-combustion technique, which was reported for Pt nanoparticles
(49), was recently applied for the synthesis of Li-doped MgO (50). A series of
different Li loadings was prepared by thermal ignition of the metal nitrates in
a mixture of glycerol and ethanol, with subsequent calcination in argon or air
at 800 ◦C for 2 h. Detailed catalytic data was not reported, since the study was
focused on the structure and morphology.
2.4.
Summary
A variety of preparation procedures, including wet impregnation, sol-
gel, and organometallic approaches, have been reported so far. The wet
impregnation is by far the most applied procedure, used in more than 80%
of the publications. Compared to this, other important procedures like co-
precipitation, solid state reactions, mixed milling, or combustion synthesis are
comparably underrepresented in the literature. Unfortunately, a direct com-
parison of the catalytic performance of the differently synthesized materials is
very difﬁcult due to vastly varying testing conditions.
In studies on the active center, many publications follow the suggestions
of Driscoll et al. that the active center is [Li+O−] (10) (see also Section 5.4).
However, the main preparative route in these publications has been wet
impregnation. In this approach, it is necessary to calcine at high temperatures
to enable the Li to diffuse into the MgO. But this also accelerates side reactions,
like evaporation of Li or carbonate formation and decomposition. Moreover,
some publications applied rather low calcination temperatures. It remains
unclear if these temperatures are sufﬁcient for the diffusion of Li into the MgO.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 431
Other preparative routes, although they are more intricated and more
sophisticated, should be more suitable for the preparation Li/MgO solid solu-
tions and, therefore, of [Li+O−]. Moreover, the molecular mixing should result
in a catalyst that is less pronounced to a phase separation of Li- and Mg-
containing phases. However, these preparation procedures have hardly been
applied.
For wet impregnation, it was shown that the properties of the obtained
catalyst (surface basicity, surface area, CO2 content, etc.) depend on the used
precursors. A strong variation of the catalytic results was not observed and a
correlation between the properties and the catalytic performance was not fond.
The realized studies on the preparation of Li/MgO could not reveal the
essential factors determining the catalytic performance so far. A comparative
study of differently prepared Li/MgO materials, applying the same reaction
conditions for the catalytic tests, could therefore be useful.
3.
STRUCTURAL CHARACTERIZATION
3.1.
Basicity and Acidity
The effect of the basicity and acidity on the OCM has already been the
subject of discussion, including not only Li/MgO (51, 52) but also other OCM
catalysts. However, as the following review shows, no consensus has been
reached how basicitiy and acidity inﬂuence OCM performance, since there
are different kinds of basic sites with different strength and there is no
unambiguous correlation between the C2 selectivity and the basicity.
3.1.1.
Pure MgO
Davydov and co-workers studied basic sites of various oxides used as cat-
alysts in the oxidative coupling of methane via infrared spectroscopy (IR) of
adsorbed molecules such as CO2 (53, 54). It was demonstrated that the basic
sites can be titrated with CO2. The correlation between the spectral behavior
of the carbonates and the strength allowed a discrimination between the dif-
ferent sites. The presence and concentration of the strongest basic sites were
reported to determine the catalytic activity.
Ku´
s et al. observed that both the presence or absence of impurities, such as
Ca or Na, and the gas atmosphere during calcination also inﬂuenced surface
basicity (55, 56).
Bailly and co-workers studied the nature of possible active sites of
MgO by investigating the relationship between the thermodynamic Brønsted
basicity and reactivity of basic sites (CH3OH deprotonation and conversion
of 2-methyl-3-butyn-2-ol (MBOH)) (57). The relative distribution of low coor-
dinated O2−was varied via different preparative routes and measured via
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
432 S. Arndt et al.
photoluminescence. Moreover, the hydroxylation of clean MgO surfaces and its
inﬂuence on the Brønsted basicity were studied. Hydroxylated surfaces were
found to be more reactive, although they had a lower deprotonation ability
than clean surfaces. The speciﬁc reactivity of OH groups, compared to low
coordinated O2−, was found to be determined by the variable stability of the
resulting alcoholate intermediates. As OH groups are poor Brønsted bases,
the number of alcoholate species is lower on clean surfaces, however, these
intermediates were less stabilized and therefore more reactive.
Chizallet et al. used 1H Mas NMR (MAS—magic angle spinning; NMR—
nuclear magnetic resonance) to distinguish between different OH groups that
can exist on a defective MgO surface (58, 59). They found a clear correla-
tion between the area of NMR signals below −0.7 ppm chemical shift and the
conversion of 2-methylbut-3-yn-2-ol (MBOH) to acetone and acetylene as test
reaction. As these NMR signals ≤−0.7 ppm could be identiﬁed as hydroxyl
groups coordinated to surface Mg2+ ions, these OLC-H sites (LC—low coordi-
nation), with L = 1, 2, were reported as active sites. DFT (Density Functional
Theory) calculations showed that nucleophilicity of the OLC groups rather than
basicity of the surface oxygen ions determines reactivity towards MBOH con-
version. No statement was made whether the same holds for reactivity and/or
selectivity in methane oxidative coupling.
3.1.2.
Li/MgO
The surface basicity and acidity of MgO promoted with alkali metals (Li,
Na, K, Rb, and Cs), prepared via impregnation, was compared with the cat-
alytic performance of these materials (16). The surface properties strongly
depended on the promoter and on the calcination temperature. The follow-
ing order was found for the BET surface area after preparation: Li/MgO ≪
Na/MgO ≤Rb/MgO ≤K/MgO ≤Cs/MgO. Acidic sites of different strengths
were found, and basic sites were found to be broadly distributed and strongly
inﬂuenced by the promoter. A correlation between the density of the strongly
basic sites and the formation of C2 products per unit surface area was observed.
In another study using other dopants (Li2O, Na2O, PbO, La2O3, MgCl2,
CaCl2), the result was a signiﬁcant increase in surface basicity, without sig-
niﬁcant correlation between basicity and C2 yield (60). This was considered
as an indication that further factors play an important role for the catalytic
performance.
The acid-base properties and the base-catalyzed elimination reaction of
2-propanol, giving either acetone or propylene, was studied for MgO and alkali-
doped MgO by Díez et al. (61). The basic properties depended on the relative
concentration of certain surface species (OH groups, for instance). The addi-
tion of alkali metals, prepared via impregnation, increased the density of basic
sites and also modiﬁed the strength. Dopants with a higher electron-donating
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 433
strength led to the formation of stronger basic sites. The activity in the test
reaction also increased with an increasing base strength.
3.2.
Structure and Properties
The known literature about the morphological aspects of OCM catalysts,
among them Li/MgO, is summarized in detail in a book chapter of Martin
and Mirodatos (62). The loss of Li, the phase organization of Li/MgO, and the
inﬂuence of the surface area and the structure on the OCM is discussed. In the
present review, the aspects are discussed in the following sections.
3.2.1.
Pure MgO
Spoto and co-workers reviewed the research on the adsorption of CO on
MgO, in the form of single crystals, ﬁlms, and powders (63). CO was chosen as
a test molecule because it can react with both Mg2+ and O2−. Results obtained
via IR and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM) were
considered in particular. However, the results of other techniques are described
as well. It was shown that the gap between surface science experiments and
powders, as typically used in catalysis, can be progressively bridged.
Choudhary and co-workers reported that the thermal decomposition of
MgCO3 leads to MgO, which was highly active in the OCM (64). They found
a strong inﬂuence of the preparation conditions on the thermal decomposition
and the surface properties (surface area, total basicity, base strength distri-
bution) (65, 66). That the surface properties of MgO, prepared from Mg(OH)2,
also depends on the preparation and calcination conditions had been shown
before (67).
Ardizzone et al. applied X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) to study
different precursors for MgO (68, 69). Different defects were characterized and
considered to be responsible for the activation step of CH4 in the OCM. From
the experimental data obtained at different temperatures, it had been shown
that the chemical state and the basicity of MgO is a result of the competition
of O2, hydrocarbon, and H2O for the different reactive surface sites.
Mellor and co-workers investigated the impact of the MgO structure on
the heterolytic oxygen exchange with the surface (70). Either the particle size
or the termination plane was varied. The exchange was independent of the
particle size (particles with a (100) termination plane were used). The activity
order of different planes was (111) or (110) mean surface planes > (100) >
(111), indicating that low coordinated Mg2+O2−pairs play a beneﬁcial role.
3.2.2.
Li/MgO
Kimble and Kolts showed in thermogravimetric studies with different
phases of Li/MgO that Li is present as LiOH, if prepared from LiNO3 or as
Li2CO3, if prepared from Li2CO3 (71). They reported, that the LiOH exposed
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
434 S. Arndt et al.
to the reaction gas at 700 ◦C was converted to Li2CO3. Treating MgO with the
same conditions, it did not gain weight, suggesting that no change took place.
If treated at 775 ◦C in a N2 atmosphere, Li2CO3/MgO showed a partial decom-
position of the carbonate. The decomposition was completed at 900 ◦C. Being
exposed to the reaction mixture at 700 ◦C, it was converted back to Li2CO3.
If H2O was added at 700 ◦C, the quantity of carbonate seemed to decrease.
Kimble and Kolts assumed that in return the amount of hydroxides increased.
Cycles of carbonate formation and decomposition did not effect the activity as
a catalyst. It was assumed that in the presence of a mixture of CO2 and H2O
an equilibrium will be established, with carbonate as the predominant species
(72). A loss of Li during the calcination of the Li/MgO was reported. The loss
of Li from the catalyst at high temperatures under reaction conditions was
also reported by Kimble and Kolts (73). Moreover, it was reported that the
Li content was stabilized at approximately 1% when supported on CaO. That a
limit for the maximum concentration of Li could exist, was underlined by these
authors.
The chemistry of Li in Li/MgO during the OCM was investigated by Korf
et al. (74). Their conlcusions were:
1.
Behavior of Li/MgO was found to depend strongly on the preparation
procedure.
2.
Passing CO2 through the solution while impregnating MgO led to higher
amounts of Li2CO3 and segregation of Li to the surface of the catalyst.
3.
The optimum loading of Li in the fresh catalyst was reported to be 2–4 wt%.
4.
The active site was formed on the surface by a gradual decomposition of
Li2CO3 in the presence of O2. The absence of O2 had an adverse effect on
the activity.
5.
The active sites were found to be unstable. The deactivation was due to a
loss of Li, via evaporating of the volatile LiOH or the formation of Li2SiO3,
from Li and the quartz glass material of the reactor. H2O in the feed had,
therefore, an adverse effect.
6.
In hot spot areas, the loss of Li was reported to occur most rapidly.
7.
CO2 in the feed was found to lead to:
a. reversible poisoning of the active site,
b. but also to stabilization of the active site against deactivation.
8.
Measures for a stable catalyst points out that:
a. equilibrium between Li2CO3 and LiOH is necessary,
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 435
b. periodic reversal of the ﬂow direction improves the stability,
c. application of an Al2O3 instead of a quartz glass reactor can improve
the stability.
While investigating the reaction of CO2 during the oxidative coupling of
methane, Galuszka found that a substantial amount of Li formed a carbonate,
which was stable up to 800 ◦C (75). The carbonate formation started at 400 ◦C,
as shown via Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), temperature
programmed reaction (TPR), and temperature programmed desorption (TPD).
Interestingly, several hours of calcination at 800 ◦C were necessary to remove
the CO2 from the catalyst. There was no CO2 on pure MgO above 600 ◦C, there-
fore, chemisorbed CO2 on Li/MgO above 600 ◦C had to be attributed to the Li.
Furthermore, different types of carbonates can be assumed, and they should
have different properties and activities. However, the identiﬁcation of surface
species by IR has proven to be difﬁcult (76, 77).
In the publication of Ito et al., the optimum loading of Li was reported
to be 7 wt% (9). In a later discussion, it was noted that for achieving a
monolayer of Li+ on MgO ca. 0.2 wt% Li is required, which is a relatively
low loading (78). Therefore, Hutchings and co-workers reinvestigated the
optimum loading of Li on MgO (79). They found that a sub-monolayer loading,
i.e., the above-mentioned 0.2 wt% Li, enhances the activation of CH4 and the
selectivity towards coupling products, indicating that the optimum loading of
Li is much lower than reported in previous publications, e.g., 7 wt% reported
by Ito et al. (9).
Hargreaves and co-workers investigated the morphology of Li/MgO and
its relationship to catalytic performance (80–83). For pure MgO, it was
demonstrated that the morphology is an important factor for the catalytic per-
formance in the oxidative coupling of methane. The addition of Li to MgO
led to changes due to grain growth. It was concluded that corner and edge
sites did not signiﬁcantly contribute to the catalytic activity. A special “bot-
tom step” site was suggested to be the active center. For Li/MgO, immobile
dislocations were detected in the bulk of these grains. It was suggested that
pinning of these dislocations by Li led to the formation of [Li+O−], a fre-
quently suggested candidate for the role of the active sites, as outlined in
Section 5.4.
The results of Hargreaves et al. (80–83) were conﬁrmed via atomistic sim-
ulation techniques by Lewis’ group (84). They also showed that the presence of
Li increased the concentration of oxygen defects (in the form of [Li+O−]) and
promoted their segregation to surface sites. [Li+O−] centers were reported to
be trapped in low coordinated surface sites, which should lead to a modiﬁed
activity. They assumed that the activity of pure, undoped MgO was the result
of more complex surface defects.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
436 S. Arndt et al.
The relationship between surface morphology and reactivity was investi-
gated by testing several differently prepared and well-characterized MgO and
Li/MgO catalysts by the group of Lunsford (85). The comparison of the results
showed that the surface area and the morphology did not have a signiﬁcant
impact on the OCM. However, small structural effects, which could have a
strong catalytic impact, might have remained undetected.
Berger et al. observed the changes of the surface properties of MgO when
small amounts of Li were introduced (45). It was found that the addition of only
0.2 at% Li to pure MgO decreased already the thermal stability of the resulting
material. After the Li segregated to the surface, it changed the spectroscopic
properties signiﬁcantly (e.g., IR ﬁngerprint of active hydroxyls and hydrides,
surface-trapped electrons, and adsorbed oxygen radicals). It was concluded
that Li preferentially moves to surface sites associated with low coordinated
ions and higher surface reactivity.
Choudhary et al. investigated MgO, Li/MgO, and MgO doped with other
additives as catalysts for the oxidative coupling of methane (86). The doping
with Li led to a severe sintering of the MgO and, therefore, to lower speciﬁc
surface areas. The selectivity obtained with the doped material increased sig-
niﬁcantly. It was found that the C2 selectivity increased nearly linearly with
the decrease of the speciﬁc surface area. The involvement of lattice oxygen of
the catalysts was investigated in a pulsed micro-reactor (87). It was found that
with increasing pulse number, in each pulse only CH4 was dosed to the reac-
tor, the conversion of CH4 decreased sharply, and the C2 selectivity increased.
It was concluded that lattice oxygen was involved. The re-oxidation of the cat-
alysts after the pulses, led to a decrease of the C2 selectivity as compared with
fresh catalyst. The reason could be the formation of active chemisorbed species
and/or restructuring of the catalyst surface.
Sinev et al. studied the redox properties of differing catalyst, among them
Li/MgO (88). Based on the results, a new mechanism for the catalyst re-
oxidation was suggested, viz. that under steady state, the re-oxidation can
proceed via the oxidative dehydrogenation of surface OH groups.
Taniewski and co-workers oxidized C2H4 over Li/MgO without co-feeding
of O2, to obtain information on the oxidation properties of Li/MgO (89). Since
large amounts of CO and H2 were found, it was clearly demonstrated that
Li/MgO exhibits a high oxygen mobility. After the reduction of the catalyst, it
was possible to restore the activity by its re-oxidation with air. The results on
the oxidation of C2H4 can also be used to draw conclusions about the fate of
C2H4 in the post-catalytic zone, being still in the reactor.
Anderson and Norby analyzed the liquid phases in Li/MgO by means
of thermoanalytical and electrical conductivity measurements and electron
microscopy (90). The results indicated that the solubility of Li in MgO
increases with increasing oxygen activity, which is also predicted by defect
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 437
theory. At 700 ◦C and in a CO2-rich, oxidizing atmosphere, the solubility of Li
in MgO was estimated to be in the order of magnitude of 0.1 mol%, respectively
0.02 wt%.
Pure MgO is a poor electronic conductor at low temperatures, however,
doping with Li leads to p-type semiconductivity (91, 92). Norby and Anderson
studied the electrical conductivity of sintered Li/MgO at different temper-
atures (≤1200 ◦C) and under different O2 partial pressures. The effect of
H2O and CO2 was also investigated. It was found that Li dissolves in MgO,
such that an Mg2+ is being substituted by Li+, forming a negative defect and
increasing p-type conductivity, which was dominating at near atmospheric
O2 partial pressures and high temperatures. Surface and/or grain boundary
conductivity became important at intermediate temperatures (≤700
◦C),
which was also probably mainly due to p-type conductivity. It was observed
that Li readily evaporated from the surface at high temperatures and that Si
containing impurities reacted with Li/MgO forming non-conducting silicate
phases. Under ambient pressures of H2O or H2, proton defects seemed to play
a minor role (93).
When measuring the direct current (DC) conductivity of Li/MgO as a func-
tion of H2O vapor and O2 partial pressure, Balint and Aika observed that
proton species dominated the conductivity at low temperatures (400 ◦C) (94),
p-type conductivity dominated at high temperatures (800–900 ◦C), correspond-
ing to the results of Norby and Anderson, which indicated a mixed conduction
mechanism at intermediate temperatures (500–700 ◦C). A mechanism was
proposed in which doping with Li leads to the formation of oxygen vacan-
cies, which play an important role in the generation of O−sites. These oxygen
vacancies were believed to be blocked by hydrogen defects at low temperatures.
Balint and Aika investigated the defect sites formed when MgO was doped
with Li or Ti (95). Pure MgO and Li/MgO always exhibited p-type conductivity,
whereas Ti/MgO showed n-type conductivity. Doping with Li favored the for-
mation of oxygen vacancies, while doping with Ti had the inverse effect. That
showed that the defect structure of MgO can be controlled via doping. Tardío
and co-workers also determined p-type semiconductor properties of Li/MgO
single crystals (96).
For MgO and Li/MgO, the dependency of DC conductivity on the partial
pressures of O2 and H2O was investigated at OCM temperature (97, 98). The
DC conductivity of Li/MgO increased with increasing O2 pressures, indicat-
ing a p-type conductivity of this material. The effect of H2O was stronger
on MgO than on Li/MgO. A model for the defect generation due to H2O
inclusion was proposed. Two different activation energies for DC conductivity
were found, one at low temperatures (400–600 ◦C) the other at high tempera-
tures (700–900 ◦C). Based on the pressure dependencies, different conductivity
mechanisms were proposed. For the low temperature, an OH-vehicle mech-
anism and at high temperature a p-type mechanism due to O−defects was
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
438 S. Arndt et al.
proposed. TPD experiments showed the release of H2 above 600 ◦C. Therefore,
a mechanism with O-H bond rapture for the formation of O−defects in the
high temperature region was proposed.
That the electronic semiconductor properties could be very important fea-
tures of catalysts for the oxidative coupling of methane, has also been discussed
in a review of Zhang and co-workers [5].
In 1971, Abraham and co-workers reported a variation of the carbon arc-
fusion technique, which allowed them to grow highly pure MgO and CaO
single crystals. This method was successfully applied for doping single crys-
tals of MgO with a variety of different metals, Li for instance (99). Electron
paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy (EPR) experiments with a variety of
different alkali earth metals with alkaline doping indicated the formation
of [Li+O−] centers. Schirmer provided evidence using EPR, that the Li sub-
stitutes an Mg in the MgO lattice (100). Electron nuclear double resonance
(ENDOR) experiments supported this ﬁnding (101, 102). The formation of
[Li+O−] centers is favored by heavy electron irradiation and high tempera-
ture quenching, which were stable at room temperature. However, γ -radiation
resulted in the formation of these centers, but they were not stable at room
temperature. EPR and ENDOR experiments revealed that the defects pro-
duced via different ways had the same local conﬁguration (101, 103). The
irradiation with neutrons did not lead to stable [Li+O−] centers (104). At high
temperatures, a Li2O precipitate led to the formation of a so called “micro-
galaxy,” i.e., a localized [Li+O−]-rich environment in the neighborhood of the
precipitate. Diffusion in the MgO crystal and replacement of Mg2+ or formation
of vacancies followed (105). The formation of stable [Li+O−] centers strongly
depended on the surrounding atmosphere, the presence of O2 was inevitable
for the thermal generation of the defects. The [Li+O−] centers formed at higher
temperatures were stable, however, the cooling procedure effected the sta-
bility. When a slow cooling took place, the Li, which had diffused into the
MgO crystal, diffused back into the more stable Li-precipitates (106). Since
impurities, such as Fe and Cr, could not be avoided, the formation of [Li+O−]
centers was partly accompanied by a valence change of these metals (107).
Interestingly, the [Li+O−] centers were also found in CaO (108). From the
investigation of current-voltage characteristics, it was concluded, that at oxi-
dizing temperatures the crystals of Li/MgO had a signiﬁcant effect on the
[Li+O−] concentration and the electrical conductivity, thermal aging did not
seem to have a signiﬁcant effect on these features (109). For further informa-
tion, the review of Chen and Abraham on trapped hole centers in alkali earth
oxides is recommended (110).
The solubility of hydrogen or deuterium was reported to be much higher
in Li/MgO than in pure MgO (104, 111). The mimimum temperature for a
diffusion of deuterium in pure MgO was reported to be 1477 ◦C, for Li/MgO
the mimimum temperature was reported to be 527 ◦C, the higher diffusivity
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 439
was attributed to the presence of Li2O precipitates (111, 112). Furthermore, it
was observed that D2O adsorbs dissociatively on Li/MgO.
Matsuura et al. prepared Li/MgO using ultra ﬁne crystaline MgO. A good
correlation between the intensity of the photoluminescence signal (at λ =
450 nm) and the activity was found, also indicating that lower coordinated
surface sites, which were formed through the incorporation of Li into the (111)
plane of MgO, are playing a signiﬁcant role (29, 113).
Padró et al. studied Li/MgO with different Li loadings with x-ray diffrac-
tion (XRD), XPS, and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) in order to char-
acterize the surface and the catalytic behavior (114). It was found that the
catalytic behavior and the surface composition depend strongly on the Li load-
ing. Furthermore, it was concluded that di-oxygen species, e.g., O−
2 could be
present at the surface and that a complex equilibrium between the surface
oxygen species and the O−centers exists.
Aritani and co-workers characterized Li/MgO by means of XRD, XPS, Mg
K-edge X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) and SEM techniques
(115, 116). It was found that for low Li loadings (2.5 wt%), Li ions tended to
stay in the near surface region. Furthermore, the surface Li tended to form
separate phases, without a strong effect on the surface MgO structure. For
higher Li loadings (7.5 wt%), the Li was also found in the bulk. An effect of
Li incorporation in the bulk was the reduction of the MgO crystallinity. The
Li-atoms—being located in the near surface region and in the bulk—had an
effect on the activity in the OCM. It was assumed that the near surface defects
had a strong positive inﬂuence on the CH4 conversion, while the bulk defects
positively inﬂuenced the C2 selectivity.
The surface morphology of Li/MgO was investigated via low temperature
infrared spectroscopy of adsorbed CO by Trionfetti et al. (117). These authors
demonstrated that the morphology and the defect structure was of great impor-
tance in the oxidative dehydrogenation of C3H8. Step sites were unselective
sites and the major feature on the surface of pure MgO. When the MgO was
doped with Li, it tended to occupy the surface step sites and to replace Mg2+
(cf Figure 9). When the loading of Li was increased, the step sites were dec-
orated with Li+ and oxygen vacancies, leading to a higher reactivity. Li/MgO
prepared via sol gel, had higher amounts of incorporated Li and they showed
a higher selectivity in the ODH of C3H8 and the cracking of propane.
Myrach and co-workers recently tried to elucidate the role of Li in MgO, by
investigating two model systems: a MgO ﬁlm—with and without Li-doping—
on Mo(001) and powder samples prepared via calcination of the respective
precursors in an O2-atmosphere (118). Their study mainly focused on the phys-
ical properties. It was found, that at low concentrations of Li, it most probably
incorporates into the MgO together with oxygen vacancies, changing the opti-
cal properties of the system. Above 427 ◦C, the segregation of Li towards the
surface and the formation of irregular Li-enriched areas was observed. Above
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
440 S. Arndt et al.
Figure 3: Photon-emission spectra of 12 ML MgO/Mo(001) (black), after deposition of 1 ML
Li (blue) and after annealing to 800 K (red). The radiation was stimulated by the injec-
tion of 100 eV electrons at 1 nA current; (b) Emission spectra of 12 ML MgO/Mo(001)
(black), a layered MgO-LixO-MgO ﬁlm annealed to 500 K (blue) and a Li-doped MgO ﬁlm
annealed to 700 K (red). The arrow indicates Li D-transitions. The spectral parameters are
identical to those for (a). Figure unchanged from (118). Myrach, P
.; Nilius, N.; Levchenko, S.V
.;
Gonchar, A.; Risse, T.; Dinse, K.P
.; Boatner, L.A.; Frandsen, W.; Horn, R.; Freund, H.J.; Schlögl,
R.; Schefﬂer, M. Temperature-Dependent Morphology, Magnetic and Optical Properties of Li-
Doped MgO. ChemCatChem. 2010, 2, 854–862. Copyright Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co.
KGaA. Reproduced with permission (color ﬁgure available online).
777 ◦C, Li desorbed from the MgO surface, leaving behind distinct defects. The
Li was not completely removed by heating, very small amounts dissolve in
the MgO, as indicated by different optical properties. The change of the optical
properties is shown in Figure 3. The principle possibility to detect [Li+O−] with
EPR was demonstrated on Li/MgO single crystals from Oak Ridge National
Laboratories. EPR signals that could be assigned to the [Li+O−] center, pro-
posed by Lunsford (10), which is often considered as the active center of this
material (as outlined in Section 5.4), were found neither on the Li/MgO ﬁlms
nor in the powder samples. The possible reasons are absence, low concentra-
tion, or electron tunneling from the Mo(001) support into the hole centers.
However, the results do not exclude the general possibility of the formation
of [Li+O−].
Recently, the preparation of Li/MgO from gel-combustion was reported
(50). Combined studies with transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and SEM
were applied to characterize the structure and morphology. A hierarchical
pore structure was found for samples with low loadings of Li. Calcination at
800 ◦C changed the morphology from cubic via truncated octahedral to platelet
morphologies, depending on the Li-loading. Indications were found that the
Li enhances this transformation. Modiﬁcations in the primary morphology of
the particles caused severe changes in the secondary structure. Edge-and-step
structures and protrusions on ﬂat terraces were found to be the two kinds
of high-energy structures found in the micro-structure of the primary parti-
cles. It was reported that a relation between the transformation from cubic to
complex terminated particles and the catalytic function for the OCM existed.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 441
3.3.
Summary
MgO itself is a basic material with various basic, low coordinated and
defect sites. Doping with Li leads to a variety of modiﬁcations in the MgO
structure, partly depending on the added amount of Li. Surface defects are
induced, the surface area is reduced, and the spectroscopic properties and the
morphology changes upon Li addition.
In Li/MgO single crystals, it was found that Li can replace an Mg in the
MgO lattice, forming a [Li+O−] defect, which was studied in detail by Abraham
et al. However, other suggestions were also made. In the mechanism proposed
by Balint and Aika, for instance, the Li is involved in the formation of oxygen
vacancies, which play a role in the formation of O−. A complex equilibrium
between the different surface oxygen species exists, which is not yet fully
understood.
However, the Li was found to be instable in the Li/MgO catalyst. The
publications on the optimal Li-loading report very different amounts. There
seems to be an agreement that Li tends to form separate phases or at least
Li-enriched regions within the lattice.
The strong dependence of the presence of the different surface species
on preparation and operation conditions results in a complex picture of the
mechanism of OCM and the difﬁculty to derive clear structure-reactivity
relation.
4.
CATALYTIC PERFORMANCE OF LI/MGO-BASED CATALYSTS
4.1.
Stability of Li/MgO-Based Catalysts
Ito et al. prepared Li/MgO catalysts with Li loadings of 1 to 26 wt%. All
these prepared materials showed a catalytic activity. They found that CH4 con-
version and C2+ selectivity increased with increasing reaction temperature up
to approximately 700 ◦C (8, 9). After the catalytic tests, the speciﬁc surface
area of Li/MgO was considerably lower than the speciﬁc surface area of pure
MgO. A separate experiment with high and low surface area MgO (34 m2/g
and 8 m2/g), respectively, showed comparable conversions of 16%, but different
selectivities (5% and 29%). A deactivation experiment at 700 ◦C with 7 wt %
Li/MgO was conducted. The catalyst was stable, after approximately 15 to
32 h time on stream. However, the reaction conditions applied for this test
were 1 g catalyst, 700 ◦C, ﬂow rate of 49.8 ml/min, and a feed gas composition
of CH4:O2:He = 3:1:21.3, being highly diluted. Ito et al. proposed that C2H6
forms via the coupling of two CH3· radicals. It was also found that C2H4 was
formed via the oxidative dehydrogenation of C2H6.
Mirodatos et al. studied the deactivation of MgO and Li/MgO in detail,
together with chemical and morphological changes (119). Two kinds of
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
442 S. Arndt et al.
sintering phenomena were found. At 727 ◦C (the melting point of Li2CO3 is
720 ◦C), the deactivation coincided with sintering of the solid, a loss of BET
surface area (Brunauer, Emmett, Teller) and of Li. Nevertheless, at 634 ◦C,
the deactivation coincided only with a reduction of the BET surface area, a
loss of Li was not found. The stability of the surface area depended on the
temperature treatment (the surface collapsed above 727 ◦C) and on the gas
phase. In an O2 atmosphere, the surface was observed to be stable up to
634 ◦C, it started sintering when it was in contact with the reaction gas mix-
ture. The formation of Li2CO3 signiﬁcantly reduced the stability of the MgO
surface area, this was also shown for other dopants and other supports (120,
121). Li2CO3 was held responsible for the formation of COx (122); the increase
of the C2 selectivity with time on stream was, therefore, explained with the
decomposition of Li2CO3.
Choudhary and co-workers reported a highly stable Li/MgO, which showed
no deactivation for 15 h on stream (temperature: 750 ◦C, 0.5 g catalyst, feed gas
composition: CH4:O2 = 4:1, ﬂow: 85.6 ml/min) (30). The catalyst was prepared
via impregnation of Mg(CH3CO2)2 with aqueous Li(CH3CO2) and subsequent
calcination. The stability was attributed to the high content of CO2 (deter-
mined via heating the catalyst in a N2 ﬂow), which reduced the loss of Li and
improved the resistance against sintering of the catalyst.
In their study on the nature of the active site of Li/MgO, van Kasteren and
co-workers compared the activity and deactivation of Li/MgO and Li2CO3 sup-
ported on ZrO2 (123). In terms of activity, for a 7 wt% “home made” Li/MgO,
an increase in O2 conversion and CH4 conversion is observed, until 16 h time
on stream, followed by a steady deactivation. The Li content decreased con-
tinuously throughout the experiment. For 0.2 wt% Li/MgO, deactivation and
loss of Li were observed from the beginning. However, Li2CO3/ZrO2 suffered
from a comparatively fast deactivation to nearly zero activity after approxi-
mately 15 h time on stream. The working principle of the catalysts derived
from these experiments is discussed in detail in Section 5.1. However, the
increase in activity in the ﬁrst hours times on stream has not been reported by
other research groups, but the deactivation of the activity of Li/MgO has been
reported.
The catalyst deactivated due to a loss of Li as volatile LiOH or as Li2SiO3,
due to the fact that the laboratory reactors are made of quartz glass (123).
This result was conﬁrmed by Korf and co-workers (28, 74). A consequence is,
that the use of experimental equipment made of quartz glass had a negative
effect on the stability of Li/MgO. Figure 4 shows the result of a deactivation
experiment with and without quartz dilution. It is evident that without quartz,
the deactivation process is strongly retarded. After the experiment done by
Korf et al. (28), the Li content had fallen to 0.1 wt%, which is signiﬁcantly
lower than previously described by other authors (73, 119). The reason could
be the higher reaction temperature.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 443
Figure 4: Aging experiments at TReaction Temperature = 800 ◦C with Li/MgO (ca. 3.1 wt% Li)
(TCalcination = 850 ◦C), with and without quartz dilution. Figure unchanged from (28). Reprinted
from, Korf, S.J.; Roos, J.A.; de Bruijn, N.A.; van Ommen J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. Oxidative Coupling of
Methane over Lithium Doped Magnesium Oxide Catalysts. Catal. Today 1988, 2 (5), 535–545.
Copyright (1988), with permission from Elsevier via the Copyright Clearance Center.
Rapid deactivation of Li/MgO was observed by Korf et al. (124). They also
showed that, if Li was still available, the catalyst could be regenerated by treat-
ment with CO2 under reaction conditions. The deactivation could be avoided if
CO2 was added to the reaction mixture in low concentrations. Furthermore,
they concluded that CO2 temporarily poisoned the active site and simulta-
neously stabilized it against deactivation; the selectivity was not affected by
the CO2 addition (28, 124). The selectivity did not change much in their long-
term experiments, therefore, the conclusion was that the nature of the active
site had not changed much, but their number decreased. For Li/Nb/MgO, the
prevention of deactivation by adding CO2 could not be observed (125).
Aigler and Lunsford studied the oxidative coupling of methane over MgO
and Li/MgO monoliths (126). Pure MgO was more active but less selective for
the formation of C2 products, than Li/MgO. This high activity of pure MgO
was at least partly attributed to Ca2+ impurities, which were concentrated at
the surface.
The addition of silica to Li/MgO via hydrothermal treatment led to basic
magnesium hydrosilicates. If the added amount of silica was not too large, the
catalyst became more active and selective towards C2H4, however, the overall
C2+ selectivity remained unchanged. Furthermore, silica addition reduced the
evaporation of Li and it increased the speciﬁc surface area, resulting in a more
stable catalyst (46).
Roos and co-workers tested a series of different catalysts, MgO, Li/MgO
(3.8% and 5.3% Li), Cu/MgO, Na/Al2O3, Ca/Al2O3, Bi/Al2O3, Mn/Al2O3,
Pb/Al2O3, Na/Pb/Al2O3, Fe/Cr/Al2O3, Bi2Sn2O7, and SiC (127). The Li- and
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
444 S. Arndt et al.
Pb-containing materials seemed to have a superior catalytic performance
compared to the other tested materials; and Li/MgO was found to be more
stable than the Pb-containing ones.
Galuszka showed that carbonate-free Li/MgO initially showed a good
activity, but it decreased after 20 min on stream. The deactivation, the appear-
ance of CO2, and the disappearance of C2H4 coincided. Furthermore, he found
that a substantial amount of Li formed carbonate, which was stable until
800 ◦C (75).
Hutchings et al. compared O2 and O3 as an oxygen source for the OCM
over Li/MgO (128). In their study, they observed that the catalysts steadily
lost their activity because of sintering and recrystallization.
Perrichon and Durupty investigated the thermal stability of Li, Na, and K
deposited on MgO, SiO2, Al2O3, and Cr2O3 (121). It was found that on SiO2,
Al2O3, and Cr2O3 the alkali metals are rather stable, however, on MgO a loss
of alkali metal was observed at calcination temperatures higher than 500 ◦C.
This effect increased from Li to K at 800 ◦C, showing that the loss of alkali met-
als is not limited to Li. A reason for this could be that MgO is not able to form
stable compounds, unlike SiO2, Al2O3, and Cr2O3, which can form silicates,
aluminates, and chromates. Supports impregnated with alkali metals always
had a lower surface area; the temperature had no inﬂuence on this. This effect
was explained with the formation of a conglomerate of alkali metal salt and
support. Furthermore, it was assumed that the alkali metal phase, which
was present at the interface between the support particles, underwent trans-
formations, especially fusion during sintering. Therefore, it induced partial
dissolution of the support and, thus, the growth of larger crystals.
Choudhary et al. observed the effect of doping MgO and Li/MgO with Mn,
Cd, and Zn on the catalytic activity in the OCM. The addition of the dopants
caused a severe sintering of the MgO, resulting in a decreased speciﬁc sur-
face area, but the selectivity also signiﬁcantly increased. It was found that the
C2 selectivity increased nearly linearly with the decrease of the speciﬁc sur-
face area. After 12 h time on stream, the conversion of CH4 of Li/MgO was
approximately 35% (reaction conditions: feed gas composition CH4:O2:N2 =
2.3:1:10.4, temperature 780 ◦C, ﬂow 60 ml/min, and 0.2 ml catalyst). Doping
with Mn, Cd, and Zn led to a generally lower conversion, in the range of
25–30%. However, the Li-promoted catalysts suffered from heavy sintering and
deactivation during the catalytic experiments (86).
Al-Zahrani and co-workers studied the effect of CO2, steam and liquid
water treatment, and the process conditions on the oxidative coupling of
methane over Li/MgO (129–131). It was shown that CO2 has not only a poi-
soning effect on the formation rate of CO, CO2, and C2 products. However, the
C2 selectivity remained unaffected. H2O in the feed enhanced the deactiva-
tion rate. This is accelerated with increasing partial pressure of H2O. Small
amounts of CO2 decreased the deactivation. The addition of liquid H2O into
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 445
the catalyst bed increased the CH4 conversion. Due to the water treatment,
it was reported that the Li content decreased and the speciﬁc surface area
increased. It was also shown that the catalyst lost Li, by deposition on the
reactor walls.
Taniewski and co-workers did research on the effective utilization of the
catalyst bed, which deactivated during the reaction (26). It was reported that a
hot-spot area was the only working region of the bed and the place of catalyst
aging. In a scaled-up laboratory reactor, it was shown that the deactivation
could be attributed to a signiﬁcant loss of Li, which led to the decrease of C2
selectivity. Changing the feed inlet locations made it possible to involve suc-
cessive layers of catalyst in the reaction. Furthermore, transformations of the
bed, prepared from fresh and deactivated Li/MgO, led to the transport of Li
from the fresh catalyst (deactivation) to the deactivated catalyst (regenera-
tion). However, other researchers reported that the highly mobile Li caused
severe corrosion and loss of physical integrity in their reactors made from
different materials (21, 22).
4.2.
Comparison of Catalytic Performance of Several Li/MgO
Catalysts
In Table 1, the different reaction conditions and catalytic results taken
from different publications are presented. The applied reaction conditions vary
signiﬁcantly, often a large amount of inert dilutent was applied in the feed
gas. The strong differences in the reaction conditions hinder a comparison
of results, obtained by different research groups (132); no correlation can be
observed in the obtained results due to the strong variation.
4.3.
Inﬂuence of Process Parameters
The required minimum temperature for CH4 conversion is concordantly
reported to be at approximately 600 ◦C. The CH4 conversion and the C2 yield
increase with increasing reaction temperature, reaching a maximum at ca.
750 to 800 ◦C. However, since some authors reported Li/MgO to be an instable
catalyst, the catalytic performance of different Li/MgO catalysts after several
hours time on stream is questionable. Studies on this subject have not been
published yet.
In 1994, Machocki showed that the OCM at temperatures below 700 ◦C
could be applied without the loss of effectiveness, via applying a much
longer contact time. He showed that the required contact times were much
longer than previously reported in the majority of publications. Therefore,
an extended contact time could lead to lower reaction temperatures, i.e.,
600 to 650 ◦C, even for catalysts that are regarded to be suitable for the high
temperature range (137).
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Table 1: Overview of the reaction conditions and catalytic performance taken from selected publications. Usually the C2
selectivity is reported, meaning the combined selectivity towards C2H6 and C2H4. However, in few publications the C2+ selectivity,
which also takes higher hydrocarbons into account, is reported. The difference between C2 and C2+, which is usually small, has
been neglected and reported as C2. The space time yield for the C2 products (STY) was calculated according to the formula STY
= np/mcatalyst; if the catalyst was given as a volume, then this has been used.
No.
Catalyst
Mass
CH4:O2:
Dilutent
Temperature Flow rate
X CH4 [%]
X O2 [%] SC2 [%]
C2H6/
C2H4
STY
Comment
Ref.
1
7 wt%
4.000 g 1.9:1:3.6
720 ◦C
49.8 ml/min
37.5
n.s.
46.5
0.48
1.69 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(8, 9)
2
7 wt%
0.800 g 2.1:1:17.5
700 ◦C
55.2 ml/min
22.6
n.s.
56.7
—
2.37 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(11)
3
4.8 wt.
4.000 g 5.1:1 6.2
700 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
14.6
n.s.
57.4
—
1.15 mol/h ×
kgcat
After 10 h
(85)
4
4.5 wt.
4.000 g 5.1:1:6.2
700 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
13
n.s.
58.9
—
1.05 mol/h ×
kgcat
After 10 h
(85)
5
5.5 wt.
4.000 g 5.1:1:6.2
700 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
20.3
n.s.
59.6
—
1.66 mol/h ×
kgcat
After 10 h
(85)
6
1.3 wt.
2.000 g
2:1:2
760 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
37
n.s.
40
0.25
3.96 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(42)
7
1.3 wt.
2.000 g
2:1:2
780 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
37
n.s.
40
0.21
3.96 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(42)
8
1.3 wt.
2.000 g
2:1:2
800 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
37
n.s.
40
0.18
3.96 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(42)
9
3.1 wt.
0.093 g 9.6:1:3.7
780 ◦C
25.2 ml/min
13.3
100
73
0.72
47.21 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(133)
10
0.63 wt. 2.000 g 5.5:1:5.5
750 ◦C
—
25.2
100
41.9
1.00
—
—
(81, 83)
11
1 mol.
0.100 g
3:1:0
700 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
38.5
94.8
49
0.52
189.49 mol/h
× kgcat
—
(29)
12
3 mol.
0.100 g
3:1:0
700 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
38.3
91.4
55
0.51
211.59 mol/h
× kgcat
—
(29)
13
5 mol.
0.100 g
3:1:0
700 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
30.4
68.4
54.1
0.54
165.20 mol/h
× kgcat
—
(29)
14
10 mol.
0.100 g
3:1:0
700 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
16.1
43.4
56.2
0.61
90.89 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(29)
446
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
15
15 mol.
0.100 g
3:1:0
700 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
5.8
12.8
54
0.67
31.46 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(29)
16
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
28.7
n.s.
63.1
0.91
61.85 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code A
(34)
17
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
22.1
n.s.
59.7
1.25
45.06 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code B
(34)
18
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
24.8
n.s.
56.9
1.25
48.19 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code C
(34)
19
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
19.7
n.s.
65
1.25
43.73 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code D
(34)
20
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
33.5
n.s.
55.8
0.71
63.84 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code E
(34)
21
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
18.6
n.s.
30.6
2.00
19.44 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code F
(34)
22
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
6.6
n.s.
66.6
3.33
15.01 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code G
(34)
23
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
21.8
n.s.
59.6
1.43
44.37 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code H
(34)
24
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
31.7
n.s.
59
0.63
63.87 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code I
(34)
25
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
29.6
n.s.
59.1
0.77
59.74 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code J
(34)
26
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
36.1
n.s.
60.1
0.59
74.10 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code K
(34)
27
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
25.1
n.s.
64.9
0.77
55.63 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code L
(34)
28
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
38
n.s.
55.3
0.42
71.77 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code M
(34)
29
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.100 g
3:1:0
750 ◦C
17.0 ml/min
24.5
n.s.
52.2
1.25
43.68 mol/h ×
kgcat
Code N
(34)
30
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.500 g
4:1:0
750 ◦C
86.0 ml/min
11.9
n.s.
50
3.33
21.93 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(16)
31
Li/Mg =
0.1
0.500 g
4:1:0
750 ◦C
86.0 ml/min
27.6
n.s.
64
1.18
65.10 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(16)
32
0.66 wt. 0.093 g
10:1:0
780 ◦C
25.2 ml/min
4.4
50
66.4
1.37
19.30 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(28)
(Continued)
447
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Table 1: (Continued).
No.
Catalyst
Mass
CH4:O2:
Dilutent
Temperature Flow rate
X CH4 [%]
X O2 [%] SC2 [%]
C2H6/
C2H4
STY
Comment
Ref.
33
1.71 wt. 0.093 g
10:1:0
780 ◦C
25.2 ml/min
10
75
75.1
75.1
49.60 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(28)
34
2.47 wt. 0.093 g
10:1:0
780 ◦C
25.2 ml/min
11.1
85
71.7
1.12
52.57 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(28)
35
3.19 wt. 0.093 g
10:1:0
780 ◦C
25.2 ml/min
11.4
88
72
1.24
54.21 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(28)
36
0.02 wt. 2.000 g 3.7:1:17.4
650 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
4.1
n.s.
7.6
—
0.03 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(134)
37
0.05 wt. 2.000 g 3.7:1:17.4
650 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
6.2
n.s.
9.6
—
0.07 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(134)
38
0.10 wt. 2.000 g 3.7:1:17.4
650 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
7.6
37.0
17.5
—
0.15 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(134)
39
0.15 wt. 2.000 g 3.7:1:17.4
650 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
9.3
44.4
25.7
—
0.27 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(134)
40
0.20 wt. 2.000 g 3.7:1:17.4
650 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
8.2
38.3
35.7
—
0.33 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(134)
41
0.25 wt. 2.000 g 3.7:1:17.4
650 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
9.6
36.8
30.8
—
0.33 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(134)
42
1.00 wt. 2.000 g 3.7:1:17.4
650 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
9.1
44.8
36.4
—
0.37 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(134)
43
5.00 wt. 2.000 g 3.7:1:17.4
650 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
8
30.4
34.5
—
0.31 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(134)
44
7.00 wt. 2.000 g 3.7:1:17.4
650 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
6
27.4
30.6
—
0.21 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(134)
45
10.00 wt. 2.000 g 3.7:1:17.4
650 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
7.6
n.s.
35.6
—
0.30 mol/h ×
kgcat
—
(134)
46
0.2
4 ml
3:1:0
700 ◦C
75.5 ml/min
29.8
94.2
58.8
2.40
6.64 mol/h ×
lcat
—
(79)
47
2.0
4 ml
3:1:0
700 ◦C
85.7 ml/min
22.1
63.9
62.8
1.54
5.97 mol/h ×
lcat
—
(79)
48
5.0
4ml
3:1:0
700 ◦C
88.0 ml/min
11.8
27.8
53
2.27
2.76 mol/h ×
lcat
—
(79)
448
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
49
5
4 ml
3.3:1:0
720 ◦C
43.2 ml/min
2.7
n.s.
65.4
0.65
0.39 mol/h ×
lcat
—
(135)
50
5
4 ml
3.3:1:0
550 ◦C
43.2 ml/min
1.6
n.s.
22.5
3.5
0.08 mol/h ×
lcat
—
(135)
51
0.6
1.25 ml
2:1:7.1
680 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
38
n.s.
35
0.59
2.82 mol/h ×
lcat
After 10 h
(126)
52
1.2
1.25 ml
2:1:7.1
680 ◦C
50.0 ml/min
30
n.s.
41
0.71
2.61 mol/h ×
lcat
After 10 h
(126)
53
4 wt.
3.000 ml 2:1:6.3
700 ◦C
74.0 ml/min
34.4
n.s.
46.7
0.46
2.28 mol/h ×
lcat
After
30 min
(136)
n.s., not speciﬁed
449
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
450 S. Arndt et al.
Asami and co-workers observed that the non-catalytic oxidative coupling
of CH4 was considerably enhanced under pressures up to 16 bar and in a
temperature range between 650 and 800 ◦C (138).
Ekstrom et al. investigated the effect of pressure (range of 1–6 bar) on the
OCM reaction (139). They found that with increasing pressure the importance
of the uncatalyzed reaction also increased signiﬁcantly. This is in agreement
with the results of Lane and Wolf (140). The pressure dependency of the cat-
alyzed and uncatalyzed reactions were different; at high pressures and low
ﬂow rates the uncatalyzed reactions were predominant. Moreover, they found
that at high ﬂow rates the C2+ selectivity decreased with increasing pressure.
Pinabiau-Carlier et al. also investigated the effect of the pressure on the OCM,
but not with a Li/MgO catalyst (141).
Edwards and co-workers studied the OCM in a ﬁxed-bed and a ﬂuidized-
bed reactor (20). They found that increasing the pressure in the ﬁxed-bed
reactor led to an increase in CH4 conversion, but in a reduced C2 selectivity.
Chen et al. studied the effect of pressure (up to 10 bar) on the oxida-
tive coupling of methane in the absence of a catalyst (142). The conversion
of CH4 and O2 increased with pressure at constant temperature and residence
time. Increasing pressure favored the oxidative route from C2H6 to C2H4 com-
pared to the pyrolytic route. The methyl and the hydrogen peroxy radicals were
reported to be the most abundant radicals, however, this was concluded on the
basis of a model (142, 143).
Parida and Rao found that the key factor of the OCM was a low speciﬁc
surface area, however, there should be an optimal surface area. Furthermore,
it was found that the C2 selectivity increased with an increasing basicity (144).
Iwamatsu et al. studied different alkali-doped MgO for the oxidative cou-
pling of methane (12, 13, 120). They found that a low surface area was a
very important factor for a high C2 yield. Also, other researchers found that
a low surface area was rather beneﬁcial than detrimental for a high yield, for
instance, Lunsford et al. (85). In an investigation with a series of metal oxides
supported on SrCO3, Aika and co-workers found that a decrease in catalyst
surface led to an increase in the C2 formation, concomitantly suppressing the
total oxidation (145).
Rynkowski et al. reported on the inﬂuence of the calcination temperature
on the surface area of SiO2, Al2O3, and MgO, comparing this with the results
obtained when these oxides were promoted with Li (146). The addition of Li led
to a signiﬁcant decrease in the BET surface area after calcination, compared
to the undoped sample.
Kuo et al. showed that the reduction of surface area, which is induced by
the incorporation of Li, could be compensated by addition of activated charcoal
at the start of the preparation procedure (35). The charcoal was burned off
in the calcination step. The surface area increased and the morphology was
modiﬁed. The effect of the charcoal addition could be avoiding the formation
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 451
of large MgO crystals. The conversion and selectivity of the catalysts (per unit
surface area) was found to be nearly independent of the speciﬁc surface area.
Therefore, Kuo and co-workers concluded that the effect of the BET surface
area on the activity, reported in earlier studies, was probably inﬂuenced by the
residence time and it is not a pure effect of the BET surface area. However, a
correlation was found between the CH4 conversion, the total surface area in
the reactor, and an inverse correlation between catalyst density and speciﬁc
surface area of the catalyst. The variation of the BET surface area in these
experiments was only between approximately 0.5 m2/g and 3.0 m2/g.
The results of experiments with different catalysts indicate the idea that
an optimal surface area, which is not too high, exists for the OCM (62).
However, the authors also argued that more detailed work is necessary to
substantiate this idea, as it cannot be excluded that the OCM is a structure
sensitive reaction. For such a case, a heat treatment of the catalysts would not
only lead to a reduced surface area, but also to a different surface morphology.
4.4.
Summary
Deactivation of Li/MgO is due to a loss of Li as LiOH, which is formed
from Li-compounds with the reaction product H2O. Deactivation is partly sup-
pressed by CO2 transforming Li2O into the more stable Li2CO3. There seems
to be a general trend that high carbonate-containing materials are more stable
and more selective towards C2 formation than such with small carbonate con-
tent. The role of the LiOH vapor in the gas phase has not yet been investigated,
although this problem has been mentioned by Martin and Mirodatos (62).
The rate of deactivation, in particular of sintering, depends on the gas
composition around the catalyst. High CH4 conversions, and, therefore, high
partial pressures of H2O, lead to a high deactivation. High amounts of dilutent
in the feed gas seem to supress deactivation. Both are detrimental to an indus-
trial application. Supporting Li/MgO on SiO2, Al2O3, and Cr2O3 did not lead
to any signiﬁcant improvement with respect to catalyst stability.
Catalyst selectivity towards C2 of Li/MgO increased by doping Li/MgO
with certain dopants like Mn, Cd, and Zn; however, activity was negatively
affected. Operating conditions and the dimensions of the reactor also inﬂuence
selectivity. Usually, temperatures in the range of 700 to 800 ◦C lead to the best
selectivities, while at lower as well as higher temperatures, selectivity dete-
riorates due to total oxidation. High ratios of partial pressures of CH4 to O2
results in better selectivity than in the reversed case. Furthermore, the abso-
lute pressure of O2 is also a selectivity-determining factor: higher O2 partial
pressures favor total oxidation. Any excessive hotspots within the reactor as
well as transport limitations should be avoided since selectivity is negatively
affected.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
452 S. Arndt et al.
At higher pressures, non-catalytic gas phase oxidation reactions can occur
leading also to some C2 formation, even though small in comparison to COx.
Even though under typical OCM conditions, mixtures are outside ﬂammability
limits at atmospheric pressure, it cannot be excluded that gas phase reactions
also play an important role there, as radicals released of the catalyst might
initiate gas phase radical chain processes.
5.
MECHANISTIC STUDIES
5.1.
General Mechanistic Studies
Ito et al. conducted experiments with a series of differently doped Li/MgO
catalysts. It was reported that their 7 wt% Li/MgO prepared catalyst reached
a steady state after 15 h time on stream and remained a stable performance
until the end of the experiment, 32 h time on stream (9). The reaction condi-
tions were 700 ◦C, 1 g of catalyst, feed gas composition: CH4:O2:He = 3:1:21.3,
ﬂow: 50 ml/min, which are typical laboratory conditions. It was proposed that
the coupling of two CH3· radicals lead to the formation of C2H6 and that C2H4
is formed via the oxidative dehydrogenation of C2H6. The measured EPR sig-
nals were in agreement with the ones Abraham and co-workers assigned to
[Li+O−] (147), suggesting the presence of this defect. Later, the EPR technique
was used to observe the formation of methyl radicals, when CH4 was passed
over pure MgO at 500 ◦C (10, 148). Depending on the kind of pretreatment, sig-
niﬁcant differences in the initial activity were observed. Vacuum pretreatment
did not lead to an increase in activity, while pretreatment in O2 did increase
the initial activity, observed as an improved formation of methyl radicals. The
formation of [Li+O−] centers in single crystals of MgO doped with Li at temper-
atures between 1000 to 1300 ◦C was reported and extensively studied before
by Abraham et al. (101), Chen et al. (103), Lacey et al. (106), Boldu et al. (107),
Olson et al. (108), Chen et al. (109), and Abraham et al. (147). It was shown
that these centers also formed at temperatures between 500–1000 ◦C in an O2
atmosphere, even if the intensity differed (10).
Yates and Zlotin observed that the uncatalyzed thermal reaction, in an
empty reactor, contributed signiﬁcantly to the oxidative coupling of methane
(149). The results obtained at 700 and 720 ◦C are shown in Table 2. It is evident
that in the applied reactor system, the blank reaction contributed signiﬁcantly
to the CH4 conversion, however, the total oxidation was dominant. Moreover,
the main contribution of the catalysts was the oxidation of CO to CO2. Only
Li/MgO showed an increase in C2H4 selectivity. Ito and Lunsford et al. (8),
Ito et al. (9), and Liu et al. (150) had reported in their earlier studies that only
0.2% conversion in the blanc reactor were observed. Yates and Zlotin explained
the difference to their observed values with a difference in the reactor geom-
etry (149). Remarkably, the obtained values for the reactor with catalysts did
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 453
Table 2: The applied reaction conditions were: ﬂow rate 50.0 ml/min, com-
position: CH4:O4:Dilutent = 1.8:1:3.6 and 4.1 g catalyst. Table adopted from
Table 3A in (149).
Product Composition [mol%]
Temperature
Catalyst
XCH4
SC2
CO
CO2
C2H4
C2H6
700 ◦C
None
22.3%
20.9%
73.9
14.4
6.9
4.8
700 ◦C
MgO
34.6%
17.4%
15.2
75.5
6.0
3.2
700 ◦C
3% Li/MgO
39.4%
37.6%
2.1
74.8
15.8
7.3
720 ◦C
None
26.8%
19.6%
73.0
16.0
7.1
3.8
720 ◦C
MgO
35.0%
18.2%
13.7
76.3
7.1
2.9
720 ◦C
3% Li/MgO
39.2%
36.5%
2.1
75.7
15.6
6.6
not differ so signiﬁcantly. The authors concluded that the function of Li/MgO
in the OCM is extremely complex and that homogeneous and heterogeneous
reaction is important.
In the ensuing discussion, Hatano and co-workers argued that the varia-
tions in the results could be explained with differences in residence time (151).
The residence time in the experiments of Ito and Lunsford et al. (8), Ito et al.
(9), and Liu et al. (150) was shown to be less than 5 sec, whereas the set-up
of Yates and Zlotin had a residence of above 20 sec (149). Furthermore, it was
emphasized that the extent of the homogeneous reactions was also strongly
inﬂuenced by the free volume, a factor which was also different in the works
of Lunsford and Yates. Different CH4 conversions were reported in case of
an empty reactor or a reactor ﬁlled with fused-quartz rings and the ques-
tion was raised, why Yates and Zlotin (149), but also Lane and Wolf (140), did
not observe differences for such experiments. Regarding the O2 conversion, it
was argued that under the conditions Yates and Zlotin applied, most of the O2
had already been consumed before reaching the catalyst bed. Lunsford and co-
workers concluded summarizingly, that in their experiments the homogeneous
contribution was not signiﬁcant and that it seemed unlikely that C2 yield could
be achieved purely by homogeneous reactions (151).
Yates and Zlotin (152) replied that they published a Li2B4O7, which did
not have any combustion activity and, therefore, did not produce signiﬁcantly
more CO2 than the empty reactor (153). It was critized that Lunsford and co-
workers did not cite this work. They also argued that the O2 conversion in their
work and that of Lunsford did not differ as signiﬁcantly as argued by Lunsford,
since the same reaction conditions were applied. This debate shows that sev-
eral research groups can obtain different results, alone due to differences in the
reactor set-up. Further detailed experiments under controlled and comparable
conditions will be necessary to unreveal structure activity correlations.
It is reported that the contribution of the gas phase depends on the
exact operating conditions (partial pressures of all compounds, temperature,
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
454 S. Arndt et al.
residence time, and free reactor volume) (154). Yates and Zlotin and other
researchers did observe signiﬁcant contributions of gas phase reactions for the
OCM. Therefore, it can be concluded that Lunsford et al. underestimated the
importance of gas phase reactions, maybe due to their small scale experimental
set-up and the applied reaction conditions.
Hutchings and co-workers studied the partial oxidation of CH4 at 5.85 kPa
at higher temperatures, ca. 700–800 ◦C with and without the presence of a cat-
alyst (155). The product yields were similar in the presence and absence of the
catalyst, which indicated that a suitable catalyst is of secondary importance at
this temperature, in agreement with the results of Yates and Zlotin (149).
Hutchings et al. compared the selectivities of Li/MgO and MgO in order
to study the role of Li. Since Li/MgO showed higher selectivities for C2H6,
they assumed that the role of Li could be the inhibition of the oxidative
dehydrogenation activity of the MgO (156).
Korf and co-workers showed that the active sites were formed as a result
of the loss of carbonate species and that they were unstable under the reaction
conditions of the OCM, namely reducing conditions. Catalysts with a high con-
centration of carbonate species produced more C2 products than catalysts with
a lower concentration of these species. Because calcination at lower tempera-
tures led to a higher residual CO2 content of the catalysts, it also led to a higher
catalytic activity. Furthermore, the formation of the active sites was suggested
to be a direct result of the loss of carbonate species, which were unstable under
the reaction conditions of the OCM, namely reducing conditions (28).
Roos and co-workers investigated the reaction pathway of the OCM over
Li/MgO (157). A recycle system was applied that behaves like a gradientless
reactor with respect to the gas phase concentrations; a description can be found
in (158). It was found that at 720 ◦C the reaction followed a sequential reaction
scheme, as shown in Reaction 5. Furthermore, they found that the presence of
alkali carbonates and an excess of CH4 decelerated the total oxidation of C2H6
and C2H4.
CH4 →C2H6 →C2H4 →COx
(5)
Van Kasteren and co-workers investigated the nature of the active com-
pound of Li/MgO via comparison of the activity and the deactivation of Li/MgO
catalysts and Li2CO3 supported on ZrO2 (123). The O2 conversion of their
7 wt% Li/MgO increased during the ﬁrst 16 h, nearly to full conversion, fol-
lowed by a steady deactivation. It was also shown that the Li content decreased
during the whole time on stream. For 0.2 wt% Li/MgO, deactivation and loss
of Li were observed from the beginning. However, the initial values of con-
version were the same for both catalysts. It was concluded that only a small
amount of the Li was responsible for the activity. Li2CO3 alone supported on
the inert carrier ZrO2 revealed that Li2CO3 was also an active OCM catalyst,
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 455
Figure 5: The working hypothesis of the Li/MgO catalysts, as proposed by van der Wiele et al.
In the presence of O2, Li2CO3 decomposes to form the active site, which reacts with CH4. The
deactivation proceeds through evaporation, reaction with H2O to LiOH, or the formation of
Li2SiO3, reaction with SiO2 from the quartz of the reactor material, which is being almost inert.
Unchanged ﬁgure adapted from (123). Reprinted from van Kasteren, J.M.N.; Geerts, J.W.M.H.;
van der Wiele, K. Working Principle of Li Doped Mgo Applied for the Oxidative Coupling of
Methane. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1990, 55, 343–349. Copyright with permission from Elsevier via
the Copyright Clearance Center.
with a performance identical to Li/MgO, except for lower activity due to the
lower speciﬁc surface area. The activity lasted as long as Li2CO3 was present.
It was shown that Li2ZrO3, which was also an active catalyst, was not the
active phase here, as it was not present. From this information, a working
hypothesis of Li/MgO was developed, as shown in Figure 5. These results are
in agreement with results published by Mirodatos and co-workers (119, 122).
Lunsford and co-workers studied the Reaction 6 over (LiCl+NaCl)/MgO
(159). With a matrix isolation system, methyl radicals were observed.
CH4 + C2H4 →C3H6
(6)
However, vinyl radicals could not be detected. With isotopic experiments it was
shown that the methyl group, which was added to the alkene, was derived from
the CH4.
Chen et al. studied the OCM with a co-feed of C2H6 in the presence and
absence of Li/Sn/MgO as catalyst (19). They found an increase in the feed con-
version in the absence of catalyst. It was concluded that this was due to an
increase in the concentration of radicals. Co-feeding in the presence of the cat-
alysts resulted in a small increase in O2 conversion and a decrease in the CH4
conversion. The later one probably occurred due to a competition with C2H6 for
the active site. The rate determining step was determined to be the regenera-
tion of the active center. However, a beneﬁcial effect of co-feeding C2H6 in the
presence of the catalyst was not found. Based on this result, it was concluded
that for the upgrade of natural gas the C2H6 should be separated beforehand.
Many of the above-described results were obtained by steady state exper-
iments. However, transient experiments can also signiﬁcantly contribute to a
mechanistic understanding of a reaction. Many of the results in the follow-
ing paragraphs and sections were obtained by transient experiments. In an
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
456 S. Arndt et al.
excellent review article from Schuurman and Mirodatos, the use of transient
kinetic experiments for methane activation, including the OCM, has been
summarized and discussed (160).
5.2.
Reactant Activation
5.2.1.
Oxygen Activation
Nibbelke et al. showed that O2 interacts strongly with the catalyst.
It reversibly adsorbed dissociatively and an exchange between the surface and
the bulk oxygen took place (161). Doping with Li, even more with Sn, increased
the oxygen diffusion coefﬁcient, therefore, increasing the exchangeable amount
of oxygen on the catalyst. CO2 interacted with the catalyst, in the absence of
the reactants, only in the presence of Li.
Peil and co-workers used steady-state isotopic transient kinetic analy-
sis (SSITKA) to investigate surface phenomena in the OCM over MgO and
Li/MgO at temperatures up to 645 ◦C (162–164). They found that the MgO
and the Li/MgO catalysts could be divided into three regions:
1.
physical surface where the oxygen exchange between gas phase and solid
phase takes place,
2.
several layers of subsurface oxygen atoms that are readily available for
exchanges, and
3.
the bulk oxide.
The subsurface oxygen and the bulk oxygen were signiﬁcant additional oxy-
gen sources. The investigation of the pathway of CO2 suggested a multi-step
oxidation pathway. Active sites that were involved in the coupling process
were found to have a lower activity than active sites involved in the selective
processes (162–164).
Dahl et al. conducted characterization studies of Li/MgO in a pulse reac-
tor, exposing the catalyst to pulses of air, CH4, and air-CH4 mixtures (165).
The results indicated that the catalyst was active even with small amounts of
Li2CO3, and O2 may reversibly adsorb on the surface. Additionally, Li/MgO
could act as an “oxygen reservoir.”
Contradictory results to Peil and Nibbelke have been published by
Choudhary et al. (166). With pulse of CH4, C2H6, and C2H4 in the presence
and absence of gas phase O2 over Li-, La-, and Sm-promoted MgO, it was shown
that the lattice oxygen of these catalysts did not have a signiﬁcant role in the
OCM and the presence of free O2 is necessary for the OCM. The lattice oxygen
is involved in the conversion of C2H6 and C2H4, however, the importance for
the oxidation of C2H4 seemed to be more signiﬁcant than for the oxidation of
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 457
C2H6. Similar results were found for Li/MgO with additives (87) and for the
oxidation of C2H4 over Li/MgO (89).
Keulks and co-workers studied the oxygen species with temperature pro-
grammed reactions in the oxidative coupling of methane over various catalysts,
among them: Li/MgO (167). Their results suggested that simple adsorbed oxy-
gen species were not active for coupling, but for total oxidation. For simple
oxide catalysts, such as Li/MgO, gas phase O2 was necessary for the generation
of the oxygen species active for the coupling reaction. Nevertheless, for multi-
component catalysts, the lattice oxygen regenerates the active oxygen species.
The results of Bhumkar and Lobban also suggested that gas phase O2 was
involved in the regeneration of the active sites and in the CO2 formation (168).
5.2.2.
Alternative Oxygen Sources
Nakamura and co-workers studied the decomposition of N2O on Li/MgO
investigating the adsorbed oxygen species being formed (169). It was demon-
strated that a substantial amount of adsorbed oxygen species were formed.
Moreover, the formed amount increased by doping MgO with Li. Experiments
with molecular oxygen resulted in a much lower formation of adsorbed oxy-
gen species. TPD experiments revealed two types of adsorbed oxygen species
on Li/MgO, the α-species desorbing between 400–420 ◦C and the β-species at
480–495 ◦C. In contrast, for pure MgO only a weak α-oxygen species was found.
It was suggested that the α-oxygen species was present on higher index faces
of MgO, whereas the β-oxygen species was present at oxygen vacancies in the
neighborhood of places where Li substituted Mg. The hydrolysis of the oxygen
species, by soaking the samples in a solution of H2SO4, resulted in consider-
able amounts of H2O2, suggesting that they were mainly present as surface
peroxides.
The use of different oxygen sources for the oxidative coupling of methane
has been reviewed by Hutchings et al. (170, 171). Only publications that refer
to Li/MgO as a catalyst will be discussed in detail here.
Hutchings and co-workers investigated the role of surface O−in the selec-
tive oxidation of CH4 using N2O as oxygen source (135, 172). They showed that
O−
(s) has two roles:
1.
at low temperatures: hydrogen abstraction
2.
at high temperatures: non-selective oxidation
Using O2 as an oxygen source, the CH4 conversion was an order of magnitude
higher than with N2O. However, at comparable conversions, N2O led to higher
selectivities than O2.
In contrast to this, while studying the decomposition of N2O and the activa-
tion of CH4 with O2 and N2O over Li/MgO and MgO doped with alkaline earth
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
458 S. Arndt et al.
oxides, Cunningham and McNamara found that O2 was the more effective oxy-
gen source; generally resulting in higher conversion and higher selectivities
(173).
Later, Hutchings et al. studied the OCM over Li/MgO in the presence of
NO (174). They found that in the presence of NO, Li/MgO showed at least
two different oxidizing species or oxidizing sites, which were signiﬁcant. In the
OCM over MgO and Li/MgO in the presence of different nitric oxides, different
trends were observed for these two catalysts, therefore, indicating different
reaction mechanisms for MgO and Li/MgO (175).
In 1988, the same group did a comparative study of O2, O3, and N2O as
oxygen source for the OCM over Li/MgO, MgO, and γ -Al2O3 (128, 176). Below
400 ◦C, O3 was more active and selective than O2. The products under these
conditions were only H2, CO2, and CO. H2O could not be detected. The addition
of H2O did not affect the product selectivity. O2 and O3 showed a similar per-
formance at higher temperatures, while at low temperatures (200–300 ◦C) O3
showed higher performance. Nitrous oxides appeared to enhance the partial
oxidation at low temperatures (550 ◦C), while at higher temperatures (720 ◦C),
it increased the formation of total oxidation products. However, deactivation of
the catalyst was observed.
The kinetic isotope effect during the oxidative coupling of methane over
Li/MgO was studied by Shi and co-workers (177). When using O2 as the oxygen
source, it was found that a single rate limiting step did not exist. For N2O, the
rate limiting step was the incorporation of the oxygen into the crystal lattice
of the Li/MgO.
Yamamoto et al. studied the OCM over Li/MgO with N2O as the oxygen
source (178). The rate of oxygen incorporation into the catalyst was slower
with N2O than with O2. However, at the same CH4 conversion levels, N2O
led to higher selectivities than O2, probably due to a decrease of surface reac-
tions, which led to COx. Applying N2O as oxidant, pure MgO exhibits a much
higher CH4 conversion in comparison to Li/MgO, however, its C2 selectivity
was rather low.
5.2.3.
Methane Activation
Davydov et al. investigated the character of the primary CH4 activation on
MgO (179). They observed that the CH4 activation on MgO formed CH3 groups.
The effect of CO2 on the selectivity of OCM and ODH of C2H6 over Li/MgO
at temperatures below 650 ◦C was investigated by Wang and co-workers. It was
found that secondary reactions of the methyl radicals on the catalyst surface
are inhibited by CO2 (180). In this publication, it was also commented that
Korf et al. did not observe an effect of CO2 on the C2 selectivity (28). The reason
could be that the reaction temperature in Korf’s experiments was 780–800 ◦C
and the selectivity of 78%, was already high. The main source of CO2 at this
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 459
temperature was the total oxidation of C2H6 and C2H4 in the gas phase (181).
Thus, the importance of surface phenomena, like secondary reactions of the
methyl radicals, decreased, however, the formation of methyl radical still took
place (180).
The effect of CO2 on the activation energy for the CH3· formation and the
overall CH4 consumption in the OCM over Li/MgO was investigated by Xu
et al. [182]. They found that in the gas phase, CO2 increased the intrinsic acti-
vation energy for the CH3· formation by 100% with increasing partial pressure
of CO2. The activation energy approached a limiting value of 209 kJ/mol at
CO2 partial pressures higher than 0.001 bar, a value which is deﬁnitely being
achieved under typical reaction conditions for the OCM. CO2 acted as a cata-
lyst poison, because it adsorbed at the basic oxygen ions, which were believed
to be responsible for the activation of CH4. At lower temperatures, more active
sites were poisoned than at higher temperatures.
Coulter and Goodman showed that the rate-limiting step of the OCM
depended on the CO2 coverage of the catalyst. Their results indicated that
at low partial pressures of CO2, the C-H bond cleavage is the rate determining
step, while at high partial pressures of CO2 the desorption of CO2 is the rate
determining step (183).
Cant et al. observed that the rate of conversion of CH4 over Li/MgO is
1.5 times larger than the rate of CD4, indicating that the C-H bond breaking is
the rate determining step (184). The inﬂuence of a possible rearrangement of
OH, respectively, OD sites on the catalyst were excluded via experiments with
D2O addition.
Lapszewicz and Jiang studied the relationship between activity, selectivity,
and basicity and the ability of C-H and O-O bond scission of γ -Al2O3, MgO and
monoclinic or cubic Sm2O3 (185). Isotopic exchange rates were measured to
determine the ability of these materials to activate the reactants of the OCM.
Since a correlation was not found, it was concluded that the formation of the
methyl radical cannot be explained simply by a one-step mechanism.
5.3.
Reaction Network
5.3.1.
Reaction Intermediates
Bhumkar and Lobban observed in situ the surface features of Li/MgO
and its interactions with adsorbates at steady state and transient conditions,
applying diffuse reﬂectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (DRIFTS)
(168). Under reaction conditions, adsorbed CO2 strongly bonded to OH groups
and carbonate was found. CO2 in the gas phase reduced the catalytic activ-
ity due to adsorption and reaction to carbonate. However, H2O had a positive
effect on the carbonate decomposition.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
460 S. Arndt et al.
The presence of carbene during the OCM reaction was shown by Martin
and Mirodatos (186). They introduced C2H4 into the reactor, which was
transformed into cyclopropane. Later this was confuted by Mims and co-
workers (187).
Martin et al. studied the heterogeneous and homogeneous processes
involved in the OCM over Li/MgO (188). They compared the conversion,
selectivities, and yields of CH4/O2 and C2H6/O2 mixtures. The observed dif-
ferences were likely to be due to the much shorter lifetime of the C2H5·
radical, preventing subsequent heterogeneous deep oxidation. CH4 mixed with
other hydrocarbons led to cross coupling products, if the C-H bond strength
is relatively small (for example propene and toluene in contrast to benzene).
Cross-coupling of CH4 and C2H4 was also observed by Lunsford et al. (159).
Nibbelke et al. investigated the heterogeneous steps of the OCM over
Li/MgO and Li/Sn/MgO. As mentioned above, for a fully satisfying explana-
tion of the obtained results, a methoxy species was postulated, which was the
only carbon containing intermediate leading to the formation of CO2 (161).
5.3.2.
Product Formation
Geerts and co-workers investigated the individual reaction steps in the
oxidative coupling of methane over Li/MgO, studying the oxidation of C2H6,
C2H4, and CO separately (189). It was found, that the conversion of C2H6 to
C2H4 was faster than the total oxidation of C2H6, irrespective of the catalyst.
The conversion of C2H6 proceeded much faster than the conversion of CH4. The
combustion proceeds mainly via C2H4, which would be a serious constraint for
the maximal achievable yield.
Campbell and Lunsford investigated the contribution of the gas phase
radical coupling in the oxidative coupling of methane. They found a good agree-
ment between the yield and the methyl radical formation. The CO2 partial
pressure was also found to be an important variable (190).
Van Kasteren et al. used low pressure experiments to discriminate
between the homogeneous and the heterogeneous reactions (191). The Li/MgO
in the OCM was proposed to activate CH4 and to produce methyl radicals,
which couple in the gas phase, in case a sufﬁcient amount of third bodies are
available. Furthermore, it was shown that Li/MgO was involved in the total
oxidation of C2H6, C2H4, and CO.
This is in agreement with the work of Campbell et al. (192), concluding that
at least 40–45% of the C2 molecules were the product of gas phase coupling.
That no signiﬁcant hydrogen exchange was observed, indicates that the C-H
breaking is an irreversible step.
In studies of the OCM with Li/MgO with a reactant mixture of CH4, CD4,
and O2 (193–195), no signiﬁcant hydrogen exchange between CH4 and CD4
was detected. The only detected reaction products were:
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 461
1.
Saturated products:
a. C2H6
b. CH3CD3
c. C2D6
2.
Unsaturated products:
a. C2H4
b. CH2CD2
c. C2D4.
Depending on the concentration of the reactants, the relative concentra-
tion of the different products could be predicted. Based on these results, it
was proposed that the formation of C2H6 occurred via the gas phase cou-
pling of methyl radicals, and the oxidative dehydrogenation of C2H6 in the
gas phase was the source of C2H4. However, the absence of hydrogen exchange
is remarkable, because over pure MgO it has been reported to take place for C2
hydrocarbons at 300 ◦C and for CH4 at 400 ◦C (196), and the activation energy
was determined to be 193 kJ/mol ± 14 kJ/mol (197). Even so, taking place at
elevated temperatures, other researchers also reported the exchange between
CH4 and D2 over MgO (185, 198). Balint and Aika could observe an isotopic
exchange between CD4 and the hydroxyl groups of the 1 wt% Li/MgO at room
temperature (199).
Mims et al. also investigated the oxidative coupling of methane with
CH4/CD4 mixtures (187). The results were in agreement with Nelson et al.
(193–195). The OCM reaction mechanism via methylene, which was proposed
by Martin and Mirodatos (186), could be excluded, because the only products
formed are C2H6, CH3CD3, and C2D6.
A close relationship between the formation rate of C2H6 per unit surface
area and the density of strong basic sites on the surface was observed by
Choudhary et al. (16).
Hargreaves et al. observed at low O2 conversions (≤10%) high selectivities
(60%)
towards
H2CO
and
nearly
no
selectivity
towards
C2
products.
However, at an O2 conversion of approximately 10%, a selectivity switch
was observed. The selectivity towards H2CO was negligible, while the C2
approached 30%. The presence of H2 was also observed, despite incomplete O2
conversion (200).
5.3.3.
Consecutive Reaction: Ethane to Ethylene
C2H6 is the primary C2 product in OCM, but already below the tempera-
ture required for the C2H6 formation the oxidative dehydrogenation of C2H6
to C2H4 proceeds. Therefore, it is important not only to consider the coupling
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
462 S. Arndt et al.
of methyl radicals to C2H6, but also the ODH of C2H6, to produce the desired
product C2H6.
Morales and Lunsford reported that 3 wt% Li/MgO was an effective cat-
alyst for the ODH of C2H6 (181). They also showed that COx species were
produced from the total oxidation of C2H6 as well as C2H4. They could fur-
ther show that above temperatures of 675 ◦C the gas phase reactions became
predominant. It was assumed that even the ODH of C2H6 reaction involved
the generation of radicals, C2H5· radicals in case of the ODH of C2H6.
Chevalier and co-workers also observed that under reaction conditions of
the OCM (800 ◦C), C2H6 was non-oxidatively dehydrogenated to C2H4 (42).
The importance of consecutive reactions was studied over the Li/MgO cat-
alyst by van Kasteren et al. (201). The experiments were carried out at low
pressures (0.0001–0.015 bar). It was found that C2H6 was converted 4 times
faster than CH4, mostly to C2H4. C2H4 was still oxidized 2.6 times faster than
CH4. The conclusion was that there should be an upper limit of the C2+ yield,
which can be achieved with Li/MgO.
5.3.4.
Consecutive Reaction: Total Oxidation
Reviewing the study of the single steps of the OCM reactions, Geerts et al.
found that the main reaction pathway for the combustion proceeded via C2H4
(189). In the absence of a catalyst, the main combustion product was CO, while
in the presence of a catalyst, CO2 dominated. Similar results were observed by
Mirodatos and co-workers. C2H6 was oxidized to CO already at 600 ◦C in the
gas phase. At this temperature, the oxidative coupling was still very limited.
This was identiﬁed as one of the biggest problems of the oxidative coupling of
methane (202).
Roos and co-workers also compared the reaction pathways of C2H6 and
C2H4 over Li/MgO and Ca/Sm2O3 (203). None of the molecules were found
to be stable under reaction conditions. The total oxidation of C2H6 and C2H4
contributed signiﬁcantly to the overall reaction network. Since Ca/Sm2O3 was
the most active catalyst, its total oxidation activity for C2H6 and C2H4 was at
least partially responsible for its lower selectivity compared to Li/MgO.
Nelson and co-workers and Cant and co-workers studied the kinetic iso-
tope effect and the contribution of the oxidation of the C2 products to the CO2
formation with isotopic tracer experiments over Li/MgO with isotopic reac-
tant mixtures (184, 193–195, 204, 205). They could show that above 740 ◦C
30–80% of the CO2 derived from the oxidation of the C2 hydrocarbons, while
below 700 ◦C, were responsible for less than 10% of the CO2 formation. Two
pathways for the C2 oxidation were possible:
1.
competition of the C2 products with CH4 for O2 in surface promoted
reaction, and
2.
competition for CH3· by abstraction and combination, leading to the
formation of COx.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 463
Furthermore, their experiments showed that an exchangeable pool of CO2
existed in the catalyst, indicating that Li2CO3 is present during the reac-
tion. Besides, it was also found that the ﬁrst step of activation was the bond
breaking of a C-H bond.
In 1994, Mims and co-workers traced the secondary reactions of C2H4 with
computer models and isotopic experiments (206). The oxidation of C2H4 had
only little effects on the CH4 conversion, even at comparable partial pressures.
From the comparison with computer models, the surface was seen to quantita-
tively quench much of the oxidative gas phase radical chemistry. The C3 and C4
yield and the isotopic distributions agreed well with the described gas phase
pathways.
The origin of CO2 in the OCM was investigated with isotope experiments
by Shi et al. (207). The results showed that the rate of COx formation from
C2 products was several times larger than the COx formation from CH4, even
for Li/MgO at temperatures below 700 ◦C. The rate constants for the forma-
tion of COx from CH4 and from C2H4 depended on several factors like type of
catalyst, reaction temperature, CH4 to O2 ratio, and type of oxidant. Under
the studied reaction conditions, the ratio of COx formed from CH4 and from
C2H4, the C2 selectivity and the C2 yield tended to increase with increasing
temperature. This suggested that the amount of CH4 being converted to COx
decreased.
5.3.5.
Consecutive Reaction: Formation of Hydrogen, Reforming, and Water
Gas Shift Reaction
Hargreaves and co-wokers studied the formation of H2 in the OCM over
MgO (208). H2 had an unexpectedly high selectivity in the OCM reaction. The
source was the water gas shift reaction but also thermal cracking of C2H6.
However, the partial oxidation became more dominant at higher ﬂow rates
and low oxygen conversions.
Kinetic and mechanistic aspects of the ODH of C2H6 on Li/MgO were stud-
ied by Swaan et al. (209). The results indicated that H2 and CO are unlikely
to be the product of steam reforming, CO2 reforming of C2H6, or the water gas
shift reaction. H2 and CO are most likely produced by the decomposition of
ethoxy species on the surface.
Balint and Aika investigated the water gas shift reaction and the methane
steam reforming over 1% Li/MgO with temperature programmed reactions
and isotope labeled compounds (199). The experimental results suggested, that
the contribution of water gas shift reaction to the amounts of CO2 and H2
formed in the oxidative coupling of methane was important, which is in con-
tradiction to the results of Swaan et al. (209). Steam reforming of methane
could not be observed. However, an isotopic exchange between CD4 and the
OH groups of the Li/MgO was observed at room temperature.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
464 S. Arndt et al.
5.4.
Debate About the Active Center
5.4.1.
Defect Sites with Lithium and Oxygen
In their EPR experiments, Lunsford et al. found an EPR signal, which
was in agreement with the signal Abraham et al. assigned to [Li+O−] (147).
The methyl radical formation was correlated with the relative intensity of
EPR signals, which were assigned to the concentration of the [Li+O−] centers,
shown in Figure 6. Depending on this correlation it was concluded that the
active center is [Li+O−] (10). They suggest that methyl radicals are formed
via a hydrogen abstraction from CH4 by the [Li+O−] centers. The mechanism
proposed by Lunsford et al. is shown in Figure 7. An alternative pathway for
the regeneration may also be possible, with an electron trapped in an oxygen
ion vacancy (9).
However, no direct proof, e.g., by ENDOR, was given that the observed
signal at g = 2.054 was indeed caused by [Li+O−]. Furthermore, the signal was
never detected directly upon quenching from OCM conditions but only upon
quenching after heating in air or pure O2. It is, therefore, highly questionable
whether the correlation observed in Figure 7 is indicative of the mechanism—
suggested by Lunsford et al.
Figure 6: The amount of radicals and [Li+O−] centers formed as a function of lithium doping
into MgO (Aldrich Gold Label). All reactions were carried out under the following condi-
tions: T = 500 ◦C, collection period, 25 min (after 4 h on line), 0.50 g of catalyst, argon ﬂow
3.8 cm3min−1, CH4 ﬂow 1.14 ccm3min−1, O2 ﬂow 0.023 cm3min−1. Preconditioned at 450 ◦C,
2.5 h, 300 cm3 min−1 O2. The samples were quenched in liquid nitrogen after a 2 h exposure to
air at 700 ◦C. Figure unchanged from (10). Reprinted from Journal of the American Chemical
Society, Vol. 107/1, Driscoll, D.J.; Martir, W.; Wang, J.X.; Lunsford, J.H. Formation of Gas Phase
Methyl Radicals over Magnesium Oxide. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107 (1), 58–63. Copyright
with permission from the American Chemical Society via the Copyright Clearance Center.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 465
Figure 7: The mechanism of the CH4 activation over Li/MgO and the regeneration of the
active center as proposed by Lunsford and co-workers.
In 1986, the [Li+O−] centers in Li/MgO were characterized by Wang and
Lunsford (210). They found indications that these centers were formed at iso-
lated substitutional Li+ ions. These defects were believed to be responsible
for the activation of CH4. Later, Lunsford slightly modiﬁed his suggestion to
Oδ−or O−
3 to take into account that the CH4 activation is rate limiting for the
OCM, whereas the activation by O−was shown to be relatively rapid at low
temperatures (85).
Peng and co-workers investigated the surface composition and the reac-
tivity of Li/MgO with kinetic and XPS measurements (134). Under reaction
conditions, they observed two Li containing phases in Li/MgO, namely [Li+O−]
and Li2CO3. The O(1s) XPS peaks were assigned to the surface [Li+O−] and its
concentration. Due to the correlation of the CH4 conversion and the concen-
tration of surface [Li+O−], it was demonstrated that the [Li+O−] species is the
active center. Moreover, they determined that the concentration of the [Li+O−]
species seemed to be saturated at a Li loading of 0.2 wt%. They presumed that
Li in excess to this, evaporated from the surface and/or diffused into the MgO.
This value is in agreement with the discussion on the optimal loading of Li
(78) and the experiments for the re-appraisal of the Li loading of Hutchings
and co-workers (79).
However, Myrach et al. could not detect EPR signal compatible with
[Li+O−] (118).
5.4.2.
F-Center
Wu et al. investigated the OCM over model catalysts of MgO and Li/MgO
with combined surface science techniques under ultra high vacuum (UHV)
conditions and kinetic measurements at elevated pressures. Their results indi-
cated that the [Li+O−] centers were not responsible for the activation of CH4,
but in fact the formation of F-type centers in the near surface region (211–214).
The formation of C2H6 could be correlated with the F-type defects, determined
by spectroscopic methods (213, 215). The effect of the pretreatment on the
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
466 S. Arndt et al.
active site of MgO and Li/MgO was also investigated (216). The C2 prod-
uct formation over MgO increased with increasing pretreatment temperature
indicating that the active site for the CH4 activation was most probably an
F-type defect. This was in agreement with the thin ﬁlm model (215). The for-
mation of these defects was postulated as the rate determining step. However,
for Li/MgO the rate determining step depended on the reactant gas mixture,
namely whether O2 was present or absent. Li is considered to be a promoter
for the F-type defects, which could explain that in Li/MgO the rate determin-
ing step was different compared to MgO. It was suggested that in the presence
of O2, the decomposition of Li2CO3 was the rate determining step and in the
absence of O2 it was the H abstraction from CH4 (216).
Nelson and Tench studied the chemisorption of O2 on MgO. The experi-
ments showed that in an O2 atmosphere, the F-centers disappeared at 350 ◦C
(217). However, statistical thermodynamics predict that at higher tempera-
tures, more F-centers should be formed. If the F-centers are stable under OCM,
conditions are unknown.
5.4.3.
Mobile Lithium Carbonate Film
The deactivation of the Li/MgO catalysts was investigated in detail by
Mirodatos and co-workers (119). It was found that a tight interface between
Li2CO3 and MgO phases enabled an optimal catalytic performance. This was
the case after a treatment, which allowed the liquefaction of the alkali salt.
However, the static model of Li substitution, proposed by Ito et al. (9), Driscoll
et al. (10), and Lin and co-workers (218), does not agree exactly with the model
of the mobile Li2CO3-ﬁlm coating the MgO (119). The role and the fate of
the surface active site of Li/MgO was also studied (122). Uncarbonated MgO
was reported to have a very poor activity for coupling and total oxidation.
However, for Li/MgO, the total oxidation activity was reported to depend on
the accessible surface area of Li2CO3, and the coupling activity was suggested
to require an association of Li and Mg phases being enhanced after high tem-
perature treatment. Under reaction conditions, the total oxidation selectivity
was reported to decrease, due to the decomposition of Li2CO3.
5.5.
Pure MgO
Aika and Lunsford investigated the dehydrogenation of alkanes by O−on
MgO, with EPR and catalytic experiments (219). The formation of alkenes was
observed at 25 ◦C, the maximum was reached at 300 ◦C. For the reaction with
alkanes, an alkoxide intermediate was proposed. For CH4, a methoxide group
was proposed, which decomposed at 450 ◦C, to form mainly H2.
Iwamoto and Lunsford studied the oxidation of alkanes and alkenes by O−
2
on MgO, using EPR and catalytic experiments (220). Stochiometric reactions
were observed with simple hydrocarbons at 175 ◦C, resulting in oxygenates,
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 467
hydrocarbons, and CO2. It was proposed that the ﬁrst step for the reaction
of hydrocarbons with O−
2 is the abstraction of a hydrogen atom. Garrone and
co-workers discussed in a note the formation of O−
2 on MgO in more detail
(221).
Takita and Lunsford investigated the oxidation of alkanes by O−
3 on MgO,
using EPR and catalytic experiments (222). The evidence suggested a direct
reaction of the O−
3 with the hydrocarbons, rather than a dissociation of the O−
3
with subsequent reaction.
Ito et al. observed the activation of CH4 on MgO at lower temperatures
by means of TPD and ESR (electron spin resonance) experiments (223). It was
found that the C-H bond was easily activated on the MgO surface, even below
room temperature. Furthermore, the nature of the active site was discussed
and it was shown that on MgO in low coordinated states the CH4 adsorbs in
the heterolytically dissociated state.
Hargreaves and co-workers reported the structural effects of the oxida-
tive coupling of methane on two samples of MgO (80). MgO obtained via the
thermal decomposition of carbonates was found to show higher C2 selectivities
than MgO obtained via burning Mg. The two MgO samples had different mor-
phologies, which demonstrated that the morphology of MgO was an important
factor for the OCM.
Zhen et al. characterized and studied the catalytic properties of MgO
obtained from different preparation procedures (224). The used MgO mate-
rials were pure commercial MgO prepared via decomposition of MgCO3 and
the decomposition of Mg(NO3)2. The structural data and the catalytic perfor-
mance were correlated and the important factors for the catalytic performance,
namely temperature and speciﬁc surface area, were discussed.
Aika and Karasuda scrutinized MgO and its active site (225–227). It was
proposed that the active site in MgO was an electron-deﬁcient oxygen source,
O−for instance (225). Oxygen exchange experiments conﬁrmed this (226).
Later, they proposed that the adsorption of H2O could be responsible for the
generation of the active site (227). Figure 8 shows a model for the ﬂux of oxygen
atoms for different types of oxygen in MgO-based catalysts.
Hutchings and co-workers studied the oxidative coupling of methane in
the presence of nitric oxides over MgO and Li/MgO (175). Since different
trends for these two catalysts were observed, it was suggested that the reaction
mechanism for the OCM over MgO and Li/MgO is different.
5.6.
Summary
Based on the works of Abraham et al. (101), Chen et al. (103), Lacey et al.
(106), Boldu et al. (107), Olson et al. (108), Chen et al. (109), and Abraham et al.
(147) on Li doped MgO single crystals, [Li+O−] defects most certainly exist,
but their formation requires high temperature treatment under oxidative
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
468 S. Arndt et al.
Figure 8: Model for oxygen atom ﬂux in MgO-based catalysts, as proposed by Karasuda et al.
Figure unchanged from (226). Reprinted from Journal of Catalysis, Vol. 171/2, Karasuda T.; Aika,
K. Isotopic Oxygen Exchange between Dioxygen and MgO Catalysts for Oxidative Coupling
of Methane. J. Catal. 1997, 171 (2), 439–448. Copyright with permission from Elsevier via the
Copyright Clearance Center.
conditions followed by rapid thermal quenching. The need of oxidizing con-
ditions for the formation of these [Li+O−] defects can be easily rationalized by
writing down the formation equation in the Kröger Vink notation (see Reaction
7). Due to the monovalent nature of Li+ compared to Mg2+, excess gas phase
O2 is required for charge compensation.
Li2O + 2MgX
Mg + 1/2O2 →2Li′
Mg + 2O·
O + 2MgO
(7)
As a matter of fact, the EPR signal at g = 2.054 (9, 10, 210), that Lunsford
attributed to [Li+O−] according to the work of Abraham et al. was only
observed when the Li/MgO catalysts were calcined for an extended period of
time in air or O2 followed by quenching in liquid O2 or liquid N2. Typical OCM
conditions, on the other hand, are very reducing (CH4/O2 between 4 and 20,
H2 as reaction product) and indeed, a detection of the signal at g = 2.054 after
quenching from reaction conditions was never reported. Furthermore, it was
never proven, e.g., by ENDOR, that the paramagnetic center at g = 2.054 is
really neighbored by a Li ion.
Also the apparent correlation between the amount of CH3· radicals formed
under OCM reaction conditions over Li/MgO materials and the concentration
of [Li+O−] centers measured after post-reaction calcination for 2 h at 700 ◦C in
air followed by quenching in liquid N2 (Fig. 6) does not prove that CH3· radicals
are being formed at these centers and released in the gas phase. At OCM tem-
peratures, no catalyst is required for OCM at all as C2H6 and C2H4 are already
formed in signiﬁcant amounts in an empty reactor tube as shown, for example,
by Yates and Zlotin (Table 2). Therefore, it is not surprising that CH3· radicals
can be detected at the end of a glowing reactor tube by a technique as sensitive
as EPR. Even though there is no doubt that Li/MgO and also other materials
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 469
catalyzing OCM improve C2 selectivity compared to pure gas phase chemistry
(Table 2) the question remains how the catalyst does that. Several scenarios
can be considered whether the reviewed material can prove or disprove one or
the other:
1.
Reactions occur in the gas phase (via radicals) and at the surface of the
catalyst and both networks are coupled by the usual transport of species
and heat. In this case, any solid surface (catalyst, support, reactor wall,
etc.) can quench radicals from the gas phase possibly suppressing unselec-
tive oxidation pathways leading to the observed increase in C2 selectivity
as compared to undisturbed gas phase chemistry (Table 2).
2.
Radicals are actively produced at the catalyst surface and released in the
gas phase where they participate in gas phase radical chain reactions.
In this case, the catalyst would act as sort of an initiator of gas phase
radical reactions. The released radicals must not necessarily be CH3·, but
could also be OH· or other reactive species.
3.
Coupling to C2 occurs primarily at the catalyst surface followed by deep
oxidation either at the surface or in the gas phase.
4.
The catalyst dehydrogenates the primary reaction product C2H6 regard-
less of whether it is formed in the gas phase or at the catalyst surface
effectively to C2H4, which is less prone to further oxidation to COx.
From their non-steady state experiments, Dahl (165) and Choudhary (166)
consistently reported that lattice oxygen from the catalyst contributes to the
conversion of CH4. This fact is in contradiction to the discussed F-centers and
the mobile Li2CO3 ﬁlm. However, it was not unambiguously proven that the
oxygen does derive from the bulk. Furthermore, it generally remains unclear
how these results can be related to other mechanistic assumptions.
Isotope labeling experiments with CH4/CD4 mixtures conducted by Mims
et al. and others and the exclusive observation of symmetrically labeled C2
products, point indeed to CH3· radicals as precursors for C2 formation while
the carbene mechanism as suggested by Martin and Mirodatos did not ﬁnd
any further experimental or theoretical substantiation. The positive kinetic
isotope effect reported by Cant et al. points to cleavage of the ﬁrst C-H bond
as rate limiting step. Again, taking into account that only symmetrically sub-
stituted C2 products were observed by Mims et al. and others, this ﬁrst C-H
bond breaking step seems to be irreversible, whereas other publications report
an easy H,D scrambling on MgO. The only way to combine these conﬂicting
results is that the ﬁrst C-H breaking occurs in the gas phase and not at the
surface of Li/MgO. Attributing most of the OCM chemistry to reactions in the
gas phase could explain also why hundreds of chemically different materials
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
470 S. Arndt et al.
catalyze OCM with similar performance at temperatures of 750 ◦C but not why
Li/MgO and other materials enhance C2 selectivity.
6.
TERNARY SYSTEMS
6.1.
Effect of Metal Oxides on Li/MgO
Li/MgO has been treated with different dopants; a general overview is
shown in Table 3. The main idea of doping Li/MgO was to prevent the loss of Li,
either by modiﬁcation of the solid phase or by change the reaction conditions
towards milder conditions.
In an earlier study, Bi et al. investigated the OCM reaction over a series
of alkali, alkaline earth, and rare earth metal oxides, prepared by an impreg-
nation method. SiO2, Al2O3, and several different MgO materials were used
as support material. MgO was found to be the most promising support and
Li/Ce/MgO to be the most promising catalyst (136).
Korf et al. observed the effect of additives, various oxides of transition
metal oxides and rare earth oxides, on Li/MgO in the oxidative coupling of
methane (229). A number of dopants, for instance, Sn, Dy, Ti, and Tb, did
Table 3: Summary of different dopants of Li/MgO and
the corresponding references.
No.
Dopant
Reference
1
Na
(209, 228)
2
Ca
(229)
3
Ti
(229)
4
V
(229)
5
Cr
(230)
6
Mn
(86, 87, 229–235)
7
Fe
(230)
8
Co
(228, 229)
9
Ni
(229, 236)
10
Zn
(86, 87, 229–231)
11
Zr
(228, 237, 238)
12
Nb
(125, 228)
13
Mo
(229)
14
Cd
(86, 87)
15
Sn
(161, 228, 229, 237, 239–242)
16
La
(136, 229)
17
Ce
(136, 243–247)
18
Pr
(136)
19
Nd
(136)
20
Sm
(136)
21
Tb
(229)
22
Dy
(229)
23
Pb
(229)
24
Bi
(229, 248, 249)
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 471
not effect the C2 selectivity, however, the temperature required to achieve the
optimal yield was lowered. An explanation could be that the formation of the
active oxygen species is favored. Other additives showed minor improvements
without an effect on the selectivity (La, Ni) or lowered the required temper-
ature to reach a certain conversion (Co, Mn, Pb, Bi). A comparison of the
different additives showed that Li/Sn/MgO is a very promising system.
Swaan and co-workers studied various promoted Li/MgO in the ODH of
C2H6 (250). Li/Na/MgO showed a C2H4 selectivity of 86% at a C2H6 conversion
of 38%. Thermal investigations showed that an eutectic melt of LiNaCO3 is
formed at 490 ◦C, which exists as a molten phase. This was probably the reason
for the improved selectivity. Fuchs et al. found a similar effect for the cracking
and the ODH of C2H6 and C2H8 over Li/Dy/MgO (251).
Choudhary et al. investigated the effect of Mn, Cd, and Zn oxides on pure
MgO and Li/MgO in the oxidative coupling of methane (86). Doping led to sin-
tering of the MgO but also led to an increase in C2 selectivity. The involvement
of lattice oxygen in the coupling reaction was shown by experiments in a pulsed
micro-reactor.
Larkins and Nordin reported the effect of doping Li/MgO with different
metal oxides, such as Fe, Mn, Zn, and Cr (230). The catalytic activity could
be attributed to the physico-chemical properties of the catalyst, in particular
to the presence of reducible sites on the surface. Especially Cr, but also Mn,
seemed to favor the formation of total oxidation products, while Zn and Fe
led to higher C2 selectivities, probably due to the absence of reducible sites.
The presence of these dopants was also involved in changes of the surface
morphology.
Larkins and Nordin tested the performance of MgO, with and without
Li2CO3 being present in the preparation, loaded with different amounts of ZnO
and Mn oxides in the oxidative coupling of methane (231). If no Li2CO3 was
present, the total oxidation of CH4 dominates. At a reaction temperature of
805 ◦C, the Zn containing catalysts resulted in CH4 conversion higher than
25% and a C2 selectivity of around 60%, however, this catalyst was not better
than the undoped Li2CO3/MgO. For low loadings of Mn, the CH4 conversion
was higher than 35% with a C2 selectivity of around 50%. Increasing the
loading of Mn resulted in a decrease of conversion and C2 selectivity.
Studying the structural features of Li/Mn/MgO (232), the group of
Mariscal found that the incorporation of Li inhibited certain reactions of the
Mn-MgO phases, resulting in a higher Mn dispersion.
Later, Kanno and Kobayashi observed the different modiﬁcation effects
of Li on two Mn/MgO samples, one with lower and one with higher Mn con-
tent (233). They discriminated between the different lattice oxygen species of
Mn/MgO involved in the OCM (234). The oxygen of MgO was found to be active
for the methyl radical formation, while the oxygen of Mn-MgO was found to be
active for the oxidative dehydrogenation of C2H6.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
472 S. Arndt et al.
Zhang et al. studied the role of Li in Li/Mn/MgO with atomic absorp-
tion spectroscopy (AAS), XRD, and infrared-photoacoustic spectroscopy (235).
Catalysts from which the Li had been washed off showed a lower C2 selectivity,
indicating that the presence of Li is important.
Since Li/Sn/MgO was considered to be a very promising catalytic system
(229), the mechanism of the oxidative coupling of methane on this system was
investigated in detail (239). The results were in agreement with a Langmuir
Hinshelwood mechanism and it was concluded that the rate determining step
involves the reaction of an adsorbed CH4 with an adsorbed diatomic oxygen
species.
The particular role of Sn in the Li/Sn/MgO was investigated by van
Keulen et al. (240). It was shown that the addition of Sn to Li/MgO stabilized
the catalytic activity; Li was retained on the support under reaction condi-
tions and, therefore, suppressed deactivation. On adding larger amounts of Sn,
Li2Mg3SnO6 was formed as a new phase. Pure Li2Mg3SnO6 was also active for
the oxidative coupling of methane. The C2 yield versus time was also shown,
with a decline of 12% to 7% over 150 h time on stream.
Nibbelke et al. scrutinized the heterogeneous steps of the OCM over MgO,
Li/MgO, and Li/Sn/MgO (161). They observed that doping with Li, even more
so the addition of Sn, led to an increase of the oxygen diffusion and to an
increase in the amount of exchangeable oxygen.
Mallens and co-workers did TAP experiments (temporal analysis of prod-
ucts) with Sn/Li/MgO (252). From these experiments, they concluded that
methyl radicals were produced at the surface and combined in the gas phase.
C2H4 was formed from C2H6 via the oxidative dehydrogenation in the gas
phase. Both C2 products could be converted into CO, which could further be oxi-
dized to CO2. C2H6 and CH4 could be directly converted into CO2 by adsorbed
O2. However, lattice oxygen could also play a role in this. For the non selec-
tive reactions of C2H6, gas phase and lattice oxygen seemed to play a role.
The addition of Sn to Li/MgO increased the amount of reactive oxygen in the
uppermost lattice (241).
The group of Nagaoka reported on the effect of Sn on Li/MgO (242). They
proposed two active centers. One was O−, a surface oxide ion with an electron
deﬁcit, being generated when small amounts of Sn (less than 1 mol%) were
added to Li/MgO. Another one was the O2−of a complex oxide, containing Sn,
which was formed when large amounts of Sn were added. A redox cycle of Sn4+
and Sn2+ could be formulated involving O2−. Furthermore, it was shown that
the addition of Sn reduced the formation of Li2CO3, which covered the surface
of the catalyst.
Hoogendam and co-workers explored the importance of mixed oxides in
the catalytic behavior of Li/MgO doped with Sn or Zr (237). Doped with Sn,
the phase, which was responsible for the improved properties, seemed to be
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 473
Li2Mg3SnO6, with a cubic structure like MgO. Doping with Zr resulted in
various mixed oxides with different properties.
Zr-doped Li/MgO was studied in more detail by Hoogendam et al. (238).
It was found that increasing the Li loading led to a decrease in the ini-
tial activity, while the selectivity was unaffected. The life-time of Li/Zr/MgO
depended on the Li loading, and increasing amounts of Li extended the life-
time. The presence of Li2MgZrO4 increased the stability of the catalyst, while
Li2Mg3ZrO6 was an active and selective phase, but not stable under reaction
conditions.
McNamara et al. investigated the effect of adding Nb and Zr to Li/MgO and
Li/Na/MgO (228). For comparison, Sn and Co, which promoted Li/MgO and
Li/Na/MgO, were used. The resulting catalysts were more active and selec-
tive than the unpromoted Li/MgO; furthermore, the optimum yield could be
obtained at lower temperatures. A similar effect was observed for Li/Na/MgO.
Swaan et al. observed the effect of Nb on Li/MgO in the OCM and
ODH of C2H6 (125). In the OCM, at 600 ◦C reaction temperature, a cat-
alyst with 16 wt% Nb showed an activity 10 times higher than undoped
Li/MgO. However, for the ODH of C2H6, only a slight improvement was found.
Generally, Li/Nb/MgO produced more CO2, therefore, it had a lower selectivity
to the desired C2 products. Two phases with Li and Nb were found, however,
the active phase remained unclear. The loss of Li from Li/Nb/MgO was compa-
rable to that of pure Li/MgO. The addition of Nb increased the speciﬁc surface
area. Above the melting point of Li2CO3, the catalyst deactivated, the spe-
ciﬁc surface area decreased, and the amount of the two Li/Nb phases sharply
decreased. The addition of CO2, which had previously been reported to avoid
deactivation of Li/MgO (124), did not suppress the deactivation of Li/Nb/MgO.
Bartsch et al. studied the kinetics of the oxidative coupling of methane over
Ce/Li/MgO (244–246). Later, Dittmeyer and Hofmann made a kinetic analysis
of these data and simulated reactor performance over this catalyst (243).
Ramasamy et al. reported the inﬂuence of important reaction parameters,
such as temperature, feed gas composition, and space velocity, for the oxida-
tive coupling of methane over Li/Ni/MgO (236). Catalyst deactivation was
observed, which the authors suggested as probable reasons for a loss of Li and
coke deposition.
Tiwari and co-workers studied the OCM over Li/Ce/MgO and Li/Ce/MgO-
CaO (247). Li/Ce/MgO-CaO showed a drastically improved C2 selectivity
compared to Li/Ce/MgO.
6.2.
Effect of Chlorine on Li/MgO
That Cl−containing catalysts improved the selectivity in the oxidative
dehydrogenation had already been shown by different researchers, among
others Otsuka et al. and citations therein (253).
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
474 S. Arndt et al.
Burch and co-workers injected pulses of chlorinated compounds (CH2Cl2
and CHCl3) during the reaction, using Li/MgO and other catalysts (254). The
chlorinated compounds drastically increased the C2 selectivity. This effect was
explained with the suppression of the total oxidation by the chlorine containing
promoters. Moreover, it was observed that these promoters enhanced the ODH
of C2H6 reaction. It was concluded that using gaseous chlorinated compounds
could be an alternative to alkali doping of metal oxides.
Later, Burch et al. found that the role of chlorine over MgO was the mod-
iﬁcation of the catalyst surface to enhance the selectivity to C2H4 and C2H6
(255). That the response of C2H4 and C2H6 on the introduction of CH2Cl2 was
different was taken as evidence that the dehydrogenation of C2H6 is not due
to gas phase reactions involving chlorine radicals. The surface concentration
of chlorine at the catalyst surface was observed to be 3%.
Conway and Lunsford showed that the addition of Cl−to Li/MgO signif-
icantly improved the yield in the ODH of C2H6 (256). Under their reaction
conditions, they observed that Cl−was slowly lost from the catalyst. The Cl−
reduces the uptake of CO2, which was actually a poison for the Li/MgO. They
also assumed that the presence of Cl−could change the form of oxygen on the
surface, which was necessary for the activation. Their results demonstrated
that the activation of CH4 forming methyl radicals was the main pathway for
the formation of COx and not the total oxidation of C2H4 or C2H6. For Li/MgO
without chlorine, Roos et al. (157) and Geerts et al. (189) obtained contrary
results.
Doping Cl/Li/MgO with different metal oxides (Sn, La, Nd, and Dy)
further improved the performance (256). Dy is the best dopant, since the reac-
tion temperature could be lowered to 570–585 ◦C, hereby suppressing the
non-selective gas phase reaction.
Hinson et al. showed that the preparation of Cl/Li/MgO, via a sol-gel
synthesis, resulted in a stable and active catalyst (257).
Ruckenstein and Khan studied bi-alkali promoted Cl/MgO (248, 249).
Compared to mono-alkali MgO, the CH4 and O2 conversion and the C2
selectivity was improved (60 h time on stream).
Lunsford et al. examined the effect of Cl−on Li/MgO in the OCM (258).
The catalyst drastically changed its behavior at an Cl−to Li+ ratio of nearly 1.
The C2H4/C2H6 ratio became large, due to the improved activity towards ODH
of C2H6. Adding amounts of Cl−reduced the strong basicity of the catalyst;
it, therefore, did not react with CO2 anymore, because the Cl−inhibited the
formation of Li2CO3. The activity for methyl formation was the same for Cl−-
doped and pure Li/MgO only after poisoning with CO2, otherwise Li/Cl/MgO
had a lower activity. Under typical reaction conditions (650 ◦C), chlorine left
the catalyst as HCl, small amounts of CH3Cl were also detected. The decay
of CH4 conversion and C2H4 productivity was different, which indicated that
these reactions were catalyzed by two different active centers.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 475
A related study considered the role of chlorine in OCM process over MgO
and Li/MgO catalysts. Lewis and Catlow (259) investigated the effects of
adding chloride ions on the (001) surface of pure and Li-doped MgO. They
concluded that chloride in MgO segregates to the surface and especially to
low coordinate sites. This segregation induces modiﬁcation in the activity of
any active sites located at or near these surface sites. In the case of Li/MgO
catalyst, the surface chloride competed with oxygen holes for Li and leads to
the formation of a stable [Li+Cl−] defect cluster. The presence of this cluster
inﬂuences the catalytic properties, such as selectivity for C2H4.
6.3.
Summary
Doping of Li/MgO with metal oxides led partially to improved catalytic
performance and stability. The most frequently used dopants with a positive
effect are Ce, Sn, Zr, and Mn. The structural analysis indicates that together
with Li and MgO new multi-metal-oxide phases are formed. For many ternary
systems, different phases with variable compositions could be detected. The
individual role of these phases is sometimes discussed, however, generally
it remains unclear. F-centers are discussed for Li/MgO as active center (see
Section 5.4), however, for doped Li/MgO they have not been discussed. For
some materials, such as Li/Sn/MgO, different surface oxygen species were dis-
cussed to be the active center. Some experiments also showed that the doping
of Li/MgO with certain metal oxides increased the oxygen diffusion in the cat-
alyst material. The mechanism and the active center of these materials may
very well be different from Li/MgO.
The addition of chlorine, either to the catalyst during preparation or as
chlorine containing compounds in the feed, improve the yield, especially in the
oxidative dehydrogenation of C2H6. When chlorine was added to the catalysts,
it was slowly lost during the reaction, probably as HCl. Although the effect of
the chlorine addition seemed not to be due to the involvement in the gas phase
reactions, the actual effect remains unclear.
The doping of Li/MgO, either with metal oxides or with chlorine, leads to
an improved catalyst, although the requirements for an industrial application
are still not met. The main aim of reducing the loss of Li has not been achieved
and the systems are too complex for a fundamental understanding of the role
of the catalyst in the oxidative coupling of methane.
7.
THEORETICAL STUDIES
7.1.
Studies on MgO
The electronic and geometric structure of MgO bulk and (001) surface was
intensively studied in the past (260). MgO became a classical model system for
both experimental and theoretical studies of catalysis on oxides. It has been
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
476 S. Arndt et al.
clearly demonstrated that the pristine (100) surface, which is the most stable
one, is chemically inert, and that the catalytic activity of the material is due to
extended and point defects.
Despite the apparent simplicity of the structure of the pristine (001) sur-
face, one can expect an appreciable number of chemically distinct types of
defects. First, the Mg and O atoms can have different coordination num-
bers (261, 262). Ions of low coordination can be found at corners or edges.
Different basic sites generated by increasing the pretreatment temperature
appear to correspond to ions with different coordination numbers. However,
the relation between the coordination numbers of the ions and catalytic active
sites for different reaction types is still not well understood. In a recent
study, Chizallet et al. investigated dehydroxylated MgO powder surfaces
with a combined experimental and theoretical approach (263, 264). In this
work, photoluminescence excitation spectra of pretreated MgO surfaces were
assigned using time-dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT) cluster
calculations. This approach elucidated the nature of the adsorption sites of
different molecules, such as H2O, on the surface irregularities of MgO (263).
Figure 9 shows a schematic representation of the irregularities on the surface
of MgO, and the terminology is shown in Table 4.
Figure 9: Schematic representation of irregularities on the MgO surface as presented
by Chizallet et al., as adapted from Figure 11 of the work of Che and Tench (265).
Unchanged ﬁgure from (263). The terminology is shown in Table 4. Reprinted from Chizallet,
C.; Costentin, G.; Lauron-Pernot, H.; Krafft, J.M.; Che, M.; Delbecq, F
.; Sautet, P
. Assignment
of Photoluminescence Spectra of MgO Powders: TD-DFT Cluster Calculations Combined to
Experiments. Part I: Structure Effects on Dehydroxylated Surfaces. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112
(42), 16629–16637. Copyright with permission from the American Chemical Society via the
Copyright Clearance Center (color ﬁgure available online).
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 477
Table 4: Label, nature, and formula as used in Figure 9. Adapted from (263).
Nature
Label
Formula
(100) Plane
T
Mg13O14Mg17
T’
OMg5
Monatomic step
S1
Mg20O14Mg10
Diatomic step: edge
S2-ON
Mg10O10Mg10
S2-ON’
Mg10O16Mg22
Diatomic step: valley
S2-IN
Mg22O9
Corner: O2−3C-terminated
C-O3C
Mg13O13Mg12
Corner: Mg2+3C-terminated
C-Mg3C
Mg7O9Mg10
Divacancy
D-Mg3C-O3C
Mg9O10Mg13
Kink: O2−3C-terminated
K-O3C
Mg19O13Mg9
Kink: Mg2+3C-terminated
K-Mg3C
Mg21O14Mg10
The second type of defects includes point defects, such as O and Mg vacan-
cies, Mg-O pair vacancies, and interstitials. These defects can form in the
subsurface and at the surface at the sites with different coordination, and can
be neutral or charged. Thus, a large variety of new sites with unique chemical
and spectroscopic properties can be present at the MgO surfaces. While many
of these sites were characterized both experimentally and theoretically, there
are still unanswered questions, in particular about the relative abundance and
charge states of the defects at catalytic conditions.
The O−centers (i.e., either an oxygen ad-atom with one additional electron,
or an oxygen atom with a localized hole in the lattice) have attracted attention
due to their high chemical activity. They can be formed by irradiation or dop-
ing. That the O−centers on oxide surfaces have the ability of cleaving a C-H
bond is well known. Mehandru et al. demonstrated by theoretical calculations
that the high electron afﬁnity of O−indeed strongly promotes the CH4 acti-
vation on MgO (266). They showed that an O−ion in a Mg21O203+ cluster is
able to abstract a hydrogen from a CH4 forming a methyl radical with very low
activation energy. They also found that the adsorption of methyl radicals on
the MgO surface is relatively weak (∼1 eV), conﬁrming the scenario in which
methyl radicals desorb easily from the surface and react in the gas phase.
7.2.
Studies on Li/MgO
In general, alkali metals were added to inorganic oxides to modify the elec-
trical and conducting properties of the material. In fact, doping with alkali
metals can lead to new chemical properties due to the creation of vacancies
or changes in the valance state of other atoms resulting from charge imbal-
ance within a material. In the speciﬁc case of Li-doped MgO, the presence of
monovalent Li ions, which replaced divalent Mg ions in the crystal structure,
created an unpaired electronic hole found in the oxygen 2p band.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
478 S. Arndt et al.
Theoretical studies concerning Li/MgO catalyst can be classiﬁed into three
categories as follows:
1.
Electronic structure of Li-doped MgO;
2.
Defect formation energies and ab initio atomistic thermodynamics of Li-
doped MgO surfaces;
3.
Theoretical studies of adsorption and dissociation of CH4 on Li-doped MgO
surfaces.
7.2.1.
Electronic Structure of Li-Doped MgO
Following the mechanism of OCM over Li-doped MgO proposed by Ito
and Lunsford (8) and Ito and co-workers (9), theoretical studies concentrated
mainly on the geometry and electronic structure of the so-called [Li+O−] cen-
ters, i.e., Li substitutional defects with a localized electronic hole, and the
energetics of the hydrogen abstraction step of OCM [(267) and references
therein]. Both periodic (268–273) and cluster (267, 270, 274–281) models of
the active site have been used. It has been demonstrated that the electronic
structure of the [Li+O−] centers is sensitive to the level of theory employed.
Speciﬁcally, comparison of generalized gradient approximation (GGA), GGA
with on-site coulomb interaction correction (GGA+U), and Hartree-Fock (HF)
calculations showed that atomic and electronic structure of the Li-doped MgO
surface are sensitive to the amount of the exact exchange accounted for in cal-
culations (276, 282, 283). Inexact treatment of exchange in DFT with standard
exchange-correlation functionals results in the self-interaction error, giving
rise to an artiﬁcial electron delocalization. Thus, standard DFT functionals
used in calculations of extended systems are expected to underestimate the
localization (284) of both the unpaired electron and the accompanying hole
around O−in the surface [Li+O−] defects. EPR and ENDOR measurements
(100–102, 147) indicated that the trapped hole in the bulk is mostly localized
on a single oxygen atom, although not completely, and that one of the six bonds
between Li and the nearest neighbor O atoms is elongated by about 0.3–0.4 Å
compared to the Mg-O distance in pure MgO. These conclusions are in good
agreement with periodic UHF calculations (285–287). GGA calculations of the
geometric structure of MgO surface with the Li atom in the subsurface layer
gave slightly smaller elongation of the Li+-O−distance along the normal to the
surface (270, 282), as should be expected for the surface versus the bulk.
The information on the hole localization is not conclusive. It has been
claimed that pseudopotential GGA calculations (270) give a spin-density dis-
tribution around the surface [Li+O−] defects with subsurface Li similar to the
HF spin-density in the bulk (285, 286), while the all-electron frozen core GGA
calculations (282) give several times larger delocalization of the spin-density,
with largest spin-density still being at the single oxygen anion. However, the
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 479
criteria for the spin-density localization were different and somewhat arbitrary
in these studies, and were not related to any experimental observation. In the
case of GGA+U calculations (272, 273, 282, 283), the degree of the hole local-
ization depends on the choice of the parameter U, which was chosen to give a
strong localization. Note that no experimental data are available on the degree
of the hole localization at the surface [Li+O−] defects.
Most of the previous theoretical work was concentrated on studies of the
[Li+O−] centers at the (100) surface of MgO. Indeed, this and the equivalent
(010) and (001) surfaces are most stable, so that no other terminations were
observed experimentally for pure MgO. The situation, however, changes when
MgO is doped with Li. It was demonstrated in a recent combined experimental
and theoretical study (118) that Li doping induces formation of (111) termi-
nations, resulting in apparent rounding of initially cubic MgO nanocrystals.
A preceding theoretical work of Scanlon et al. (273) investigated the elec-
tronic structure and energetics of the [Li+O−] centers at the (100), (110), and
(111) terminations, as well as their activity towards the hydrogen abstraction
from CH4. They have concluded that the energetics associated with hydrogen
adsorption are strongly surface dependent, and indicated the (111) termination
as the most promising catalytically.
7.2.2.
Defect Formation Energies and Ab Initio Atomistic Thermodynamics of
Li-Doped MgO Surfaces
As has been pointed out at the beginning of this section, defects can dra-
matically change the chemical properties of an oxide surface. Therefore, it is
important to know these chemical properties, as well as the concentration and
distribution of the defects at the surface. For this, accurate knowledge of Gibbs
free energies of formation for different defects is needed. Initial theoretical
information on the formation energies is usually obtained from ab initio calcu-
lations corresponding to 0 K (i.e., about −273 ◦C) and ﬁxed values of chemical
potentials for species and electrons.
In this regard, an important theoretical result has been obtained by Yang
et al. (271). They found that the Li substitutional defects strongly promote for-
mation of oxygen vacancies in MgO. This is explained by the electron transfer
from the neutral vacancies to the oxygen surrounding the Li substitutional
defects. The Li defects create empty states near the top of the valence band,
stabilizing the charged oxygen vacancies (F+ and F2+). In the recent study by
Scanlon et al. (273), the formation energy of the oxygen vacancy adjacent to
two Li substitutional defects was calculated also for other MgO surface termi-
nations (110) and (111), and it was found that the energies are similar for each
surface. No analysis of the dependence of the formation energies of charged
defects in Li-doped MgO on the electron chemical potential were reported in
the literature to date.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
480 S. Arndt et al.
As the number of particles in a system increases, so does the number of
states, and the statistics start to play an increasing role at ﬁnite tempera-
tures. As a result, the structure and composition of a solid surface is a function
of temperature and pressure of the gas above the surface (288–290). Thus,
surface chemical properties cannot be simply predicted from calculations of
one particular surface conﬁguration at zero temperature. Moreover, a catalytic
surface in contact with the gas ﬂow of reactants and products is an open
thermodynamic system (291, 292). The difference between the thermodynamic
metastable states and what is called a steady state of catalysis is signiﬁcant:
the surface reactions under the condition of a constant supply of reactants and
removal of products can alter the structure and composition of the surface in
an important way (291).
Despite the above instances, the question about structure and composition
of the surface of Li-doped MgO under working conditions and the steady state
of OCM have not been addressed in the literature. First steps in this direction
were undertaken in the combined experimental-theoretical study of Myrach
et al. (118), where the ab initio atomistic thermodynamics approach was used
to estimate the concentration and distribution of various kinds of defects at the
Li-doped MgO (001) surface as a function of temperature and O2 pressure. The
theoretical results are in good agreement with the experimental observations
of Li-doped MgO ﬁlms supported on Mo (001) surface. As the ﬁlms are annealed
to temperatures above 727 ◦C, a pattern of one-monolayer-deep rectangular
holes on the MgO surface is observed, which is explained by the promoted
formation of oxygen vacancies in Li-rich islands on the MgO (001) surface.
According to the calculations, the oxygen vacancies indeed become abundant
defects at the surface at elevated temperatures even at high pressures. In fact,
the predicted concentration of the vacancies is so high that it should result in
an instability of the surface. This is consistent with recent experimental mea-
surements showing drastic changes in the morphology of MgO nanocrystals in
the presence of Li (50). The possibility of Li-induced morphological changes of
MgO particles was indicated in an earlier theoretical study by Watson (293).
7.2.3.
Theoretical Study on Adsorption of Methane on Li-Doped MgO Surface
As described in Section 5, it is generally accepted that in the OCM reaction
catalyzed by Li-doped MgO, the C-H bond-breaking step occurs at the catalyst
surface. Although there is no direct evidence for this speciﬁc role of the surface
(see Section 5), many researchers suggested that the good catalytic properties
of MgO and Li/MgO are due to the defective sites, such as vacancies, electronic
holes, and low-coordinated ions at steps and corners (13, 84, 223).
According to the mechanism proposed by Ito and Lunsford (8) and Ito et al.
(9), the CH4 is activated by surface O−species. It has been speculated that
such species would be stabilized by the Li substitutional defects in the form
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 481
of the surface [Li+O−] centers. Many theoretical studies have been devoted
to the calculation of the activation energy and reaction energetics for the H-
abstraction from CH4 on the surface oxygen adjacent to a Li substitutional
defect. Experimental values for the activation energy range from 0.93 eV (88)
to 2.43 eV (190). It was suggested that the range of the experimental numbers
is due to reactive sites of different nature. There is also a range of theoretical
values for the activation energy in the case when Li is in the subsurface MgO
(100) layer, between 0.05 and 1.2 eV, with the lower values corresponding to
higher-level methods (276, 277). Periodic Hartree-Fock calculations with an a
posteriori correlation correction (268) gave 0.78 eV for the activation energy.
Catlow et al. (267) reported the value of 0.77 eV calculated using a hybrid DFT
functional and a cluster model.
It has been pointed out that along with the approximate treatment of the
electron correlation, one should be careful to avoid errors associated with clus-
ter models of the extended surfaces (267, 268). While the study by Ackermann
et al. (276) showed a strong dependence of the activation energy on the level of
theory employed, it was based on a rather small embedded cluster model. The
study by Børve and Pettersson (277) showed the importance of non-dynamic
correlation effects for the transition-state wave function, but also for a very
small cluster model, and not including surface relaxation. On the other hand,
in addition to the reduced self-interaction error and inclusion of electron corre-
lation effects using a hybrid functional, the study of Catlow et al. used a fairly
large cluster model (267), and gave the results very similar to the periodic cal-
culations by Orlando et al. (268). The importance of the robust determination
of the reaction path has been emphasized as well (267, 270).
The activation energy in the case when Li is in the top layer was obtained
using the GGA+U method (273), and was found to be 1.21 eV. The same
authors have also calculated the activation energy on Li-doped MgO surfaces
with (110) and (111), and obtained the values 1.12 eV for (110), and 0.81 eV
for the oxygen-terminated (111) surface and 1.21 eV for the Mg-terminated
surface. In these studies, the value of U was chosen to match the geometry
of the Li substitutional defects in the bulk with the experimental estimate
of the geometry derived from ENDOR measurements (101), and to ensure a
strong localization of the hole (282). However, the experimental estimate was
based on a point-charge and dipole model calculation, and was indicated by
the authors as not conclusive. As was mentioned above, the information on the
hole localization is not conclusive as well.
Thus, the activation of the dehydrogenation reaction is still a matter of
discussion. The same is relevant for the reaction energetics. Using a hybrid
DFT functional, Catlow et al. found that the reaction is exothermic with the
reaction energy −5 kcal/mol (267). Orlando et al. reported a reaction energy
of ∼0 kcal/mol, obtained with the periodic Hartree-Fock method, indepen-
dent on whether a correlation correction is included or not (268). The results
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
482 S. Arndt et al.
obtained by Børve and Pettersson suggest that the reaction is endothermic by
8.5 kcal/mol (277), but the issues with the model reliability discussed above
are also applicable here.
An alternative mechanism was also proposed, in which the active sur-
face site is not a [Li+O−] defect but a surface oxygen vacancy (118, 213, 214,
294). As explained above, Li substitutional defects promote the formation of
O vacancies. This proposal of a new mechanism is in line with experimental
data obtained by HREELS experiments (211, 213, 214). The results of these
studies indicated that the C2H6 yield of the catalytic conversion is not depen-
dent on the density of [Li+O−] defects, but instead is strongly correlated with
the oxygen vacancy concentration (213, 214). In addition, the authors demon-
strated that, while the oxygen vacancy is thermally stable, the [Li+O−] defect
suffers from thermal instability. Theoretical studies of the reactivity of oxy-
gen vacancies in different charge states on the MgO (001) surface are scarce.
Orlando et al. investigated the reactivity of the neutral vacancy (F0 center)
towards dissociation of H2 and hydrogen abstraction from CH4, using the peri-
odic Hartree-Fock method with a posteriori correlation correction (295). The
results of the calculations suggested that F0 centers are reactive species and
they can adsorb atomic hydrogen, but the adsorption energy is not sufﬁcient to
promote the dehydrogenation of CH4. The CH4 dissociation on the F+ center
with an adjacent Li substitutional defect was also found by the same authors
to be endothermic, but it was much less endothermic than in the case of the
neutral oxygen vacancy. Dash and Gillan also predicted a high endothermicity
of the hydrogen abstraction from CH4 at the F0 centers, using periodic DFT
with a GGA functional (269). Pacchioni and Ferrari studied the interaction
of O2, CO, and H2 with oxygen vacancies on the (100) surface of MgO, using
the Hartree-Fock method and an embedded cluster model (296). The oxygen
vacancies exhibited a high reactivity towards these gases compared to the reg-
ular sites of the MgO surface. Furthermore, it has been found that the reaction
proceeds via the formation of radical anions, O2−and CO−.
7.3.
Summary
While some understanding of the electronic structure and chemical prop-
erties of Li-doped MgO surfaces has been achieved due to the numerous
theoretical studies, it is clear that more studies are necessary. It has been
demonstrated that both the electronic structure and calculated reactivity of
defects on MgO surface towards the hydrogen abstraction from CH4 require a
high level of theory for a reliable analysis. In particular, the accurate descrip-
tion of oxygen vacancies and Li substitutional defects appears to be quite
challenging. The reason for this is that, despite advances in computational
tools and hardware, modeling of defects in extended systems with high level
theoretical methods remains problematic due to a large supercell size required
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 483
for convergence, and at the same time computationally expensive scaling with
the system size. Similar problems occur in cluster calculations. This is partic-
ularly important for charged defects, for which the relaxation and screening
effects are quite long-range.
Another important aspect of the catalysis on Li/MgO surfaces is the con-
centration of defects at realistic temperature and pressure conditions. Our
theoretical studies, in conjunction with recent experiments, have demon-
strated that the concentration of defects is so high, that the surface becomes
unstable at relevant temperatures. This instability results in morphological
changes of the surface, creating a new catalytically active material. Therefore,
experiments aiming at characterization of the new material are needed for the
further development of our understanding of the catalysis on Li-doped MgO.
In the light of the results brieﬂy summarized in this review, these exper-
iments will beneﬁt from theoretical analysis of relative stabilities of different
Li/MgO surface terminations, namely (100), (110), and (111), as well as point
defect concentrations and charge states on terraces, steps, corners, and kinks,
at realistic conditions. It is also important to analyze the inﬂuence of hydrogen
and carbon on the surface stability.
8.
KINETIC STUDIES
Studying the kinetics of methane oxidative coupling is important to under-
stand the mechanism of this high temperature reaction and to develop it
into an industrial process. A proper kinetic model, viz. a compilation of reac-
tion steps and corresponding rate equations links consumption and production
rates of all reacting surface and gas phase species in a quantitative manner.
As the focus of this review is on mechanistic aspects of methane oxidative
coupling on Li/MgO, a discussion of published kinetic models for this sys-
tem will be presented in the following. Taking into account that OCM is a
prime example for a heterogeneous-homogeneous reaction, the discussion can-
not be limited to surface kinetic schemes alone but will also include gas phase
reactions. After a brief review of OCM gas phase chemistry, kinetic models
combining surface reaction steps on Li/MgO or related systems with gas phase
reaction steps will be reviewed in more detail. The chapter closes with a sum-
mary of what the authors consider of being the status quo in OCM kinetics and
a personal view of future research targets.
8.1.
OCM Gas Phase Kinetics
At temperatures above 600 ◦C, OCM occurs, to a certain extent, in the gas
phase without any catalyst being necessary though with poor selectivity to C2
products (C2H6 and C2H4). It has been observed experimentally and theoreti-
cally that a high CO/CO2 ratio and high H2 selectivity is typical for gas phase
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
484 S. Arndt et al.
OCM compared to the reaction with a catalyst. The main interest of gas phase
kinetic studies is to evaluate the contribution of gas phase reactions to catalytic
OCM, in particular if the catalytic reaction is conducted at high temperature
and pressure (297).
Numerous gas phase OCM kinetic studies have been reported in the litera-
ture (140, 142, 143, 298–302). In many cases, values of Arrhenius parameters
for simple gas phase reactions were selected from databases of combustion
chemistry (303, 304). Comparatively few kinetic models have been speciﬁcally
developed for methane-rich OCM stoichiometry, such as the model of Geerts
and co-workers (298) or the model published by Zanthoff and Baerns (302).
The number of gas phase reactions included in these models varies consider-
ably. For example, Geerts et al. (298) and Zanthoff and Baerns (302) report
both 164 elementary reactions whereas the model of Chen et al. (143) includes
only 66 reactions.
In some works (298, 301, 302), good agreement is reached between kinetic
simulations and experimental results. The model described by Geerts et al.
(298) pointed out that the main reactive species in gas phase methane oxida-
tion are the radicals H·, OH·, CH3·, and OH2·. The main carbon reaction path
involved CH3·, C2H6, C2H5·, and C2H4. All carbon species are rapidly oxidized
in the gas phase to CO. After a comparison between experiments and sim-
ulation of both catalytic and homogeneous gas phase reactions, the authors
claimed that Li/MgO is not only a methyl radical producer but also a radical
scavenger. Chen et al. (143) observed that large amounts of methyl radicals
are formed through branched chains, which degenerate to produce C2H6. The
oxidative dehydrogenation of C2H6 leads then to C2H4. In 1990, Lunsford et al.
(305) also highlighted the importance of branched-chain reactions in the gas
phase with respect to the generation of methyl radicals. In agreement with
Geerts et al. (298), Lunsford (305) concluded that the catalyst might generate
some CH3· radicals, which desorb into the gas phase, but that the main radical
pool is formed by chain branching in the gas phase.
In the majority of cases, only partial agreement between model predic-
tions and experiments is obtained. For example, Lane and Wolf observed that
the experimental dependence of the CH4 and O2 conversion on space time did
not agree with the model. At 1000 ◦C, the experimental CH4 conversion rate
was four orders of magnitude higher than calculated. On the other hand, the
dependence of the coupling selectivity on conversion was successfully described
(140).
In summary, all kinetic gas phase studies indicate that gas phase radi-
cal reactions play an important role in catalytic OCM, in particular, at high
temperature high pressure conditions. Even though small amounts of ethane
and ethylene are formed in pure gas phase OCM, the overall effect of gas
phase reactions seems to be detrimental to catalytic OCM mainly because gas
phase radical reactions are unselective in nature and lead to deep oxidation
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 485
of coupling products mainly to CO. What causes concern is that, despite the
long history of kinetic studies on gas phase methane oxidation, experimental
data are not sufﬁciently captured by the suggested models. Some discrepan-
cies might be due to the fact that many reaction steps for OCM modeling were
taken from combustion models that are typically optimized for methane lean
stoichiometries whereas OCM operates in methane excess. However, the most
important deﬁciency in existing gas phase kinetic models is probably that they
do not account properly for radical generation or radical scavenging on solid
surfaces, which is a largely unexplored topic in the literature.
8.2.
Kinetic Simulation Including Both Gas Phase and Surface
Reactions
Based on what was said before, it seems certain that OCM proceeds
through a mechanism in which catalytic reactions interact with non-catalytic
gas phase radical reactions. In 1936, Polyakov et al. were the ﬁrst who reported
such a mechanism for the complete combustion of CH4 (306). In 1981, Fang and
Yeh published the results of their study of CH4 pyrolysis over ThO2/SiO2 and
suggested a reaction mechanism based on methyl radical formation on the cat-
alyst surface (307). C2H6 was produced by coupling of two CH3· radicals in the
gas phase.
In the case of OCM, the mechanistic framework shown in Eqs. (8)–(10)
was suggested involving methyl radical formation on the catalyst surface by
homolytic dissociation of CH4 followed by desorption of a fraction of these
radicals in the gas phase (302).
CH4 + O−
s →CH3 · +OH−
s
(8)
2OH−
s →H2O + O2−
s
+ □
(9)
1/2O2 + O2−
s
+ □→2O−
s
(10)
A proof that methyl radicals are formed on the catalyst surface and being
released into the gas phase during OCM reaction was provided by EPR spec-
troscopy as already mentioned in Section 5.1. Furthermore, it should be noted
that Reaction (10) is not a single elementary step. Several other reactions, for
example, the dissociation of O2, electron transfers, or ionic mobility, can occur.
However, less details about these reactions are known, so the catalytic cycle is
lumped into these three steps.
From a kinetic point of view, some isotope exchange studies were per-
formed to determine the rate determining step. The kinetic isotope effect (KIE)
during OCM was reported for the ﬁrst time in 1988 by Cant et al. (184, 308).
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
486 S. Arndt et al.
In this study, CH4 was substituted by an exactly equal pressure of CD4 and it
was determined whether the overall conversion rate was affected. The exper-
iments were carried out at 750 ◦C with Li/MgO as catalyst. The authors
concluded that C-H bond scission [Reaction (8)] is the rate-limiting step
because of a signiﬁcant reduction in methane conversion upon deuterium sub-
stitution. Other studies, including not only Li/MgO but also Sm2O3, SrCO3 or
Na/MnOx/SiO2, conﬁrmed this conclusion (187, 204, 309, 310). Furthermore,
Nelson et al. demonstrated differences in selectivity with CD4 instead of CH4
(204). Indeed, selectivity to hydrocarbons was lower with CD4 and did not
change with decreasing ﬂow rate. This decrease of selectivity implies that
either COx and C2 products are formed by different slow steps or, if a common
step with CH3· radical is involved, then COx formation occurs on the catalyst.
However, Shi et al. questioned the idea that C-H bond cleavage is the only
rate-limiting step (177). In his study, the origin of the kinetic isotope effect
during OCM over a Li/MgO catalyst at 700 ◦C was investigated using several
different experimental methods and by a kinetic model that includes both het-
erogeneous and homogeneous reactions. The authors showed that a variation
in the H/D KIE, based on CH4 and CD4 conversion, was observed when a con-
stant partial pressure of CH4 was maintained while the partial pressure of O2
was changed. The variation in KIE with respect to the oxygen partial pres-
sure indicates that the rate of C-H bond scission [Reaction (8)] at the catalyst
surface is comparable to the rate of incorporation of oxygen into the lattice
[Reaction (10)]. Therefore, Shi et al. concluded that no unique rate determin-
ing step exists. They suggested that the relative rates of the CH4 activation
step and the oxygen incorporation step may be inﬂuenced by several operating
parameters, such as the total pressure of the reactants or the temperature.
Shi and co-workers highlighted in the same publication the inﬂuence of N2O
as oxidant. Indeed, the oxygen incorporation into the lattice was found to be
rate-limiting under a pressure of CH4 equal to 190 Torr, even in large excess of
N2O. At lower CH4 pressures, i.e., 0.4 Torr, the rate-determining step in large
excess of N2O was the formation of CH3· radicals.
In a complementary study, without KIE experiments, Zanthoff and Baerns
suggested that the primary coupling reaction to C2H6 is second order with
respect to the methyl radical concentration (302). The authors proposed
further that the non-selective reactions are ﬁrst order with respect to the con-
centration of methyl radicals and the different compounds containing oxygen.
Based on these suggestions, Zanthoff and Baerns derived some suggestions for
an optimum catalyst design. First of all, a high concentration of methyl radi-
cals is required to obtain high C2 selectivities because the coupling step is of
second order. This should be most easily achieved close to the catalytic surface
if CH4 adsorption and dissociation is fast. Moreover, adsorption capacity for
methyl radicals on the catalytic surface is required. The rate constant for the
coupling step, if it occurs at the surface, should be enhanced by the catalyst.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 487
Simultaneously the gas phase radicals containing reactive oxygen (HO2·, OH·,
O·) should be consumed by interaction with the hydrogen dissociated from the
adsorbed CH4 molecule.
Further kinetic studies on Li/MgO were published at the beginning of the
90’s (158, 311–314). Roos et al. derived rate equations for CH4 consumption
and regressed these on experimental data obtained in a gradientless reac-
tor (158). In this study, the authors concluded that the rate determining step
involves reactions of CH4 adsorbed on the catalyst surface with a diatomic
oxygen species. The adsorption of O2 is assumed to be relatively weak. They
also found that the poisoning effect of CO2 has to be taken into account in
kinetic evaluation. Consequently, a Langmuir-Hinshelwood type mechanism,
with competitive adsorption of CH4, O2, and CO2, is required in this case. CH4
may be adsorbed on the same site or on an adjacent surface site than CO2.
In the kinetic model described by Tung and Lobban, the rate equations for
the production of C2 products and CO2 were derived from a four-step reac-
tion mechanism (314). The evaluation of the kinetic parameters was carried
out by non-linear regression using the Levenberg-Marquardt method using
experimental data measured at low conversion. The authors observed C2H6
selectivities greater then 90%. Under their operating conditions no CO or C2H4
was produced, indicating that these are secondary reaction products. It is
noteworthy that the last two kinetic models consist only of catalytic surface
reactions.
The ﬁrst OCM study combining catalytic and non-catalytic gas phase reac-
tions was presented by Aparicio et al. (311). Physico-chemical relations and
thermodynamic constraints were used to evaluate kinetic parameters. The
model involved 12 irreversible reactions. The simulation results were then
compared to the experimental data published by Lunsford et al. Satisfactory
agreement between the model and the experiment was found. Furthermore,
the authors proposed new conclusions. The most important idea was that the
active sites for the OCM reaction are obtained via two elementary steps. In the
ﬁrst step, surface peroxide species are formed by adsorption of gaseous O2.
In the second step, methane-activating sites are produced as the surface perox-
ide species undergo O-O bond cleavage. Another mechanistic kinetic model was
developed by Tjatjopoulos and Vasalos (313). The proposed model consisted of
38 surface reactions for the heterogeneous network and 164 gas phase reac-
tions. The gas phase reaction scheme was adopted from the studies of Geerts
and co-workers (298). Surface kinetic parameters were estimated on the basis
of scaling arguments and published experimental data. The CH4 conversion
and coupling product selectivities obtained using the kinetic model agreed sat-
isfactorily with the experimental data over the investigated range of CH4/O2
ratios of 2–10. Using an Eley-Rideal type mechanism, the authors demon-
strated that the CH4 consumption rate exhibits a saturation-type dependence
on CH4 partial pressure. According to their results, the selectivity maximum
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
488 S. Arndt et al.
observed in experiments near 700 ◦C is caused by the temperature variation
of the surface concentration of active centers that exhibit a maximum there.
In the same year, Shi et al. published a different model (312). The homogeneous
network was extracted from the model of Zanthoff and Baerns and included
156 gas phase reactions (302, 315). This model was combined with a heteroge-
neous network describing the kinetic effects with respect to CH4 and O2 partial
pressure correctly. In this publication, Lunsford et al. conﬁrmed one more time
that surface reactions are responsible for most of the CH4 conversion and that
coupling of methyl radicals occurs in the gas phase. Based on the same hetero-
geneous network, Lunsford et al. proposed a study of the catalytic conversion of
CH4 and C2H4 to C3H6 using a (LiCl + NaCl)/MgO catalyst (159). An extended
homogeneous network including 188 gas phase reactions and C3 and C4 species
was used in this study to describe gas phase chemistry.
The most recent micro-kinetic model of the OCM reaction over Li/MgO
and Sn/Li/MgO catalysts was reported by Sun and Co-workers in 2008 (316).
This model is based on extensive studies published by Marin’s research group
(161, 241, 300, 317–319). In a ﬁrst version, the model comprises 10 catalytic
reactions coupled to 39 gas phase chain reactions and accounts for irreducible
mass-transport limitations for reactive intermediates (317, 318). This model
adequately described the experimental observations over a broad range of
operating conditions. In the 2008 publication (316), a second extended ver-
sion was presented consisting now of 14 surface reactions combined with
39 gas phase reactions. Furthermore, 13 so called catalyst descriptors, such
as chemisorption enthalpies, sticking coefﬁcients, or the density of active sites,
were implemented in the model and regressed to the experimental data start-
ing from physically reasonable values. Only one active site is considered in this
model without that the chemical nature of this site is speciﬁed. The kinetic
model is embedded in a one-dimensional heterogeneous reactor model. Sun
and co-workers summarized the kinetic model in a general scheme for the
OCM reactions involving reactants and products as reproduced in Figure 10.
The development of the gas phase reaction network used by Sun et al.
(316) started from the model reported by Chen et al. (143) including 66 reac-
tions. By a sensitivity analysis, Sun and co-workers identiﬁed some reactions
that were kinetically not relevant (316). Reactions involving C3 hydrocarbons
were added to the model in order to be able to simulate the experiments in
which C2H6 was added to the feed. After these modiﬁcations, the ﬁnal network
consisted of 39 reactions among 13 stable molecules and 10 radicals.
Because the model of Sun and co-workers seems to be the most sophisti-
cated it was of interest to the authors to check whether it is predictive not
only for the experimental data published by Sun et al. themselves but also
for data published by other groups. To perform this study, experimental data
from the authors and from the literature measured for OCM on Li/MgO cata-
lyst (9, 64, 85, 161, 320) were used as the benchmark. The kinetic simulations
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 489
Figure 10: General Scheme of the reaction network in the oxidative coupling of methane pro-
posed by Sun and co-workers. Figure unchanged from (316). Reprinted from Catalysis Today,
Vol. 137/1, Sun, J.J.; Thybaut, J.W.; Marin, G.B. Microkinetics of Methane Oxidative Coupling.
Catal. Today 2008, 137 (1), 90–102, Copyright with permission from Elsevier via the Copyright
Clearance Center.
were carried out with the same model and the same software used by Sun and
co-workers (316). The gas phase and surface reactions with their Arrhenius
parameters were introduced in the CHEMKIN software. Thermodynamic data
distributed with the CHEMKIN software were used. Some operating condi-
tions such as the pressure, temperature, CH4/O2 ratio, and the total ﬂow
rate had to be incorporated into the software. Moreover, the values of the
BET speciﬁc surface area of the catalyst and the density of active sites had
to be deﬁned. BET surface areas were available in all selected references,
while the active site density was taken from Sun et al. (316) for all simula-
tions. Figures 11 and 12 show parity plots comparing the experimental and
simulated methane conversion and C2 selectivity results, respectively.
As can be expected, the simulation and the experimental results are rea-
sonably close for the data for which the model was optimized. For independent
data, CH4 conversion is predicted reasonably well (Fig. 11) up to about 15%
conversion. Above this value, experimental and simulated CH4 conversion val-
ues differ substantially. C2 selectivity is generally overpredicted by the model
(Fig. 12) with deviations up to 33%.
It can, therefore, be concluded that even the most recent micro-kinetic
model published by Marin and co-workers shows major deﬁciencies in par-
ticular for predicting C2 selectivity data of independent experimental studies.
It seems that a general OCM model is hard to implement because of the wide
range of possible operation conditions. The use of any published micro-kinetic
model for industrial reactor design is therefore not advisable. In fact, simpliﬁed
kinetic models have been successfully used to describe experimental results as
demonstrated by Dittmeyer and Hoffmann. concerning OCM on a Ce/Li/MgO
catalyst (243). The model proposed in this study consisted of a total of 33 reac-
tions, 23 of which occured in the gas phase. Most of the kinetic parameters were
obtained by means of multi-response regression based on several concentration
and temperature proﬁles.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
490 S. Arndt et al.
Figure 11: Parity plot for experimental and simulated CH4 conversion. The • represents pub-
lished results and the ▲represents the predictions by the micro-kinetic model of Sun and
co-workers (316) (color ﬁgure available online).
Figure 12: Parity plot for experimental and simulated C2H4 conversion. The • represents pub-
lished results and the ▲represents the predictions by the micro-kinetic model of Sun and
co-workers (316) (color ﬁgure available online).
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 491
8.3.
OCM Kinetics: Status Quo and Research Perspective
In summary it can be said that the current kinetic understanding of
methane oxidative coupling is still insufﬁcient despite 30 years of research.
This is ﬁrst and foremost due to the fact that OCM is a prime example for a
heterogeneous-homogeneous reaction, viz. for a reaction network comprising
catalytic reactions at the catalyst surface, pure gas phase reactions mediated
by free radicals and radical liberation as well as radical scavenging between
the gas phase and the catalyst. As a consequence of this complex surface-
gas phase, coupling any classical kinetic approach, such as casting the rate
equations into power laws, Langmuir Hinshelwood or Mars van Krevelen type
rate expressions will inevitably fail because the kinetic parameters in these
equations are not only catalyst speciﬁc but depend intricately on the pack-
ing density of the catalyst bed, the porosity of the catalyst granules, pre- and
post-catalytic chemistry, reactor pressure, feed composition, in fact on all vari-
ables that inﬂuence gas phase chemistry in one way or another. It is, therefore,
very unlikely that any formal kinetic model deduced from a particular set of
experimental data will be predictive for conditions other than those used in set-
ting up the model. In light of the strong nonlinear behavior of coupled surface
gas reactions even minor deviations in the catalyst packing or other variables
will cause strong changes in the results even though the very same catalyst is
used.
In an excellent recent review, Sinev et al. (321) elaborate on the different
approaches in describing OCM kinetics and the interested reader is referred to
this review for further details. One important aspect as highlighted by Sinev
is the complex reciprocal inﬂuence of methane, ethane, and ethylene oxidation
kinetics, which is not captured by actual kinetic models. In nearly all cases, the
data on which the kinetic models were developed have been measured at low
conversion and on separate feed streams containing only one hydrocarbon at a
time. What is missing are kinetic data derived from mixtures of the different
hydrocarbons. The reciprocal inﬂuence of CH4 and C2H6 during their simulta-
neous oxidation has been described in several publications dealing with kinetic
simulation (322, 323) without that the results have found widespread appre-
ciation. For example, it was shown that oxidation of the primary C2 coupling
product C2H6, which is more reactive than methane, can stimulate CH4 oxida-
tion by formation of a radical pool at a higher concentration level consisting in
particular of alkyl or peroxy radicals (324, 325).
In light of this complexity it becomes clear that the only way to put OCM
kinetics on solid foundations is to use micro-kinetic models describing the reac-
tion network on an elementary step basis as it is standard in other disciplines,
such as combustion research. It goes without saying that such a model has to
include surface and gas phase reaction steps interlinked by appropriate cou-
pling steps that describe the release of reactive intermediates such as radicals
from the catalyst surface but also scavenging of gas phase radicals by the solid.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
492 S. Arndt et al.
The model of Sun and co-workers (316) is a good example in this regard even
though it does not capture all experimental details yet and certainly needs
improvement. However, it outlines the methodology how a microkinetic surface
and gas phase model can be developed for OCM and how, by means of catalyst
descriptors, the model can be transferred from one catalyst to another.
In light of the state of knowledge that is currently available on OCM, it
is clear that the development of a predictive microkinetic OCM model will
require a great deal of further research. Taking as example the density of
active sites as an important model parameter. As long as it is uncertain what
the active site on an OCM catalyst is, it will be impossible to assign numeric
value to the active site density. It should actually be considered that several
active sites might exist on an OCM catalyst given the high reaction temper-
atures that level out differences in activation barriers to some extent making
reactions on several sites comparable in rate. Another largely unexplored prob-
lem is how gas phase radicals interact with solid surfaces as presented by
the catalyst, support material, or even the reactor walls. Much fundamental
research will be necessary to assign rate parameters to this important class of
steps linking surface and gas phase chemistry. Therefore, OCM marks a touch-
stone for kinetic research in the 21st century and researchers from the various
disciplines should be encouraged to contribute building the OCM model.
9.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
At ﬁrst glance, the mechanism of methane oxidative coupling on Li/MgO as
depicted in Figure 7 seems scientiﬁcally sound and widely accepted in the
reviewed literature. This mechanism is mainly based on a series of papers
from the Lunsford group (8, 9, 11, 148, 210). However, a close look at these
publications and at results published by other groups raises doubts about
methyl radical generation on [Li+O−] centers followed by their desorption and
recombination in the gas phase as potential OCM mechanism.
In the research and the characterization of [Li+O−], suitable preparative
routes for the generation of these [Li+O−] centers have been neglected in favor
of the rather simple synthetic route of wet impregnation. The addition of Li to
MgO, however, results in a variety of modiﬁcations of the MgO with different
physical and spectroscopic characteristics. Different active centers have been
proposed, but the real nature remains unclear.
The evidence for the presence of [Li+O−] was only provided by Abraham
and co-workers, using EPR and ENDOR experiments. All other researchers
only relied on the EPR signal at g = 2.054. But this signal is not unique.
Moreover, the contribution of the gas phase reaction without a catalyst can be
large. Experiments with isotopic labeled reactants showed no mixed reaction
products, but an H/D exchange was observed at temperatures below reaction
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 493
conditions. Together, these facts put a question mark on the exact role of the
catalyst in the oxidative coupling of methane.
In fact, Li/MgO seems to be only one of dozens if not hundreds of chem-
ically totally different materials that catalyze OCM at high temperatures
(approximately 750 ◦C) making it very unlikely that a speciﬁc center such as
[Li+O−] is required to activate CH4. Other catalysts, La2O3 for instance, which
do not contain Li+, Na+, or K+, were also found to be active OCM catalysts.
The facts on Li/MgO, that we consider as being proven are:
1.
Loss of surface area up Li-addition.
2.
Loss of Li during time on stream.
3.
Strong inﬂuence of gas phase reactions. The latter are a function of tem-
perature, residence time, gas phase composition, free gas phase volume to
surface area ratio, and possibly the nature of the surface.
4.
Pure MgO, Li/MgO, and Li2CO3 are active OCM catalysts with comparable
performance.
5.
Positive isotope exchange effect.
6.
Carbene mechanism is unlikely.
7.
Irreversible C-H activation (no isotope scrambling), as H,D scrambling is
observed on MgO. It could be that C2 formation is a pure gas phase process.
8.
Li/MgO active for ODH of C2H6 to C2H4.
9.
Gas phase oxidation product is CO, surface oxidation product is CO2.
10.
Gas phase O2 necessary for C2 formation.
Doping of Li/MgO with additional metal oxides, especially transition metal
oxides, partially led to improved catalysts, however, without meeting the prac-
tical needs. New multi-metal-oxide phases form, with various compositions
and the loss of Li can be reduced. However, the structure of such materials
is even more complex, therefore, a sound structure activity relationship has
not been established yet.
The contribution of the gas phase might be high and underestimated in
the literature. A strong gas phase contribution may also explain the vast dif-
ferences of the catalytic test results, as the applied testing conditions seem
to have a stronger inﬂuence than the composition or the morphology of the
catalyst.
In summary, there is no doubt that OCM on Li/MgO and other materi-
als proceeds via a combination of surface and gas phase reactions steps with
the involvement of radicals as key intermediates. However, the stoichiometric
coupling of CH3· radicals in the gas phase released from [Li+O−] sites at the
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
494 S. Arndt et al.
Li/MgO surface lacks any solid experimental or theoretical foundation even
though this mechanism, probably because of seductive simplicity, found its
way into many textbooks and reviews on this subject matter. Because Li/MgO,
regardless of the initial preparation route, deactivates due to continuous loss
of Li over many hours time on stream, it is furthermore questionable whether
Li/MgO is really a good catalyst for studying the principles of OCM as any
kinetic or characterization data taken on this material are only a snapshot at
some point on the deactivation trajectory, which was in hardly any publication
followed until a true study state was achieved explaining the vastly scattering
results published in the literature. The transient nature of Li/MgO coupled to
parallel occurring gas phase reactions, which in turn are sensitive to tempera-
ture, pressure, surface to gas phase volume, dilution with inert gases etc. make
mechanistic OCM studies extremely challenging. Therefore, accepting Figure 7
as “the” OCM mechanism on Li/MgO seems too early. Many more fundamental
studies under well deﬁned conditions will be necessary to unravel this complex
reaction network.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We would like to thank the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft for funding
the Excellence Cluster “Unicat” (Unifying Concepts in Catalysis) and the
International Max Planck Research School of the Fritz Haber Institute of the
Max Planck Society for ﬁnancial support. Dr. Sergey Levchenko acknowledges
support from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, and Dr. Raimund Horn
thanks the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft for an Emmy Noether grant. Mr.
Sebastian Arndt is in debt to Mr. Torsten Otremba, without his automatization
of the experimental set-up, there would not have been sufﬁcient time for the
preparation of this manuscript. Moreover, Mr. Arndt would like to thank his
trainees, Anna Paliszewska and Domenic Jelinski, for their support with the
ongoing research during the work on this review and Pauline Mazurkiewiez
for her help with the literature search. We also thank Dr. Thomas Risse, Dr.
Yilmaz Aksu, and Prof. Dr. Helmut Schubert and his research group for their
help with the evaluation of certain analytical methods and procedures.
ABBREVIATIONS
AAS
Atomic Absorption Spectroscopy
BET
Brunauer Emmett Teller
CVD
Chemical Vapor Deposition
DC
Direct Current
DFT
Density Functional Theory
DRIFTS
Diffuse Reﬂectance Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 495
ENDOR
Electron Nuclear Double Resonance Spectroscopy
EPR
Electron Paramagnetic Resonance
ESR
Electron Spin Resonance
eV
Electron Volt
FT-IR
Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy
GGA
Generalized Gradient Approximation
GGA+U
Generalized
Gradient
Approximation
with
on-site
Coulomb
Interaction Correction
HF
Hartree-Fock
HREELS
High Resolution Electron Energy Loss Spectroscopy
HR-TEM
High Resolution Transmission Electron Microscopy
IR
Infrared
KIE
Kinetic Isotope Effect
LC
Low Coordination
MAS
Magic Angle Spinning
MBOH
2-methyl-3-butyn-2-ol
NMR
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy
OCM
Oxidative Coupling of Methane
ODH
Oxidative Dehydrogenation
SEM
Scanning Electron Microscopy
SFC
Self Consistent Field
SSITKA
Steady State Isotopic Transient Kinetic Analysis
STY
Space Time Yield
TAP
Temporal Analysis of Products
TD
Time Dependent
TD-DFT
Time Dependent Density Functional Theory
TEM
Transmission Electron Microscopy
TPD
Temperature Programmed Desorption
TPR
Temperature Programmed Reaction
UHF
Unrestricted Hartree-Fock
UHV
Ultra High Vacuum
XANES
X-ray Absorption Near Edge Structure
XPS
X-Ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy
XRD
X-Ray Diffraction
REFERENCES
[1]
Keller, G.E.; Bhasin, M.M. Synthesis of Ethylene via Oxidative Coupling of
Methane: I. Determination of Active Catalysts. J. Catal. 1982, 73, 9–19.
[2]
Hinsen,
W.;
Baerns,
M.
Oxidative
Kopplung
von
Methan
zu
C2-
Kohlenwasserstoffen in Gegenwart unterschiedlicher Katalysatoren. Chem.
Ztg 1983, 107, 223–226.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
496 S. Arndt et al.
[3]
Wolf, E.E., Ed. Methane Conversion by Oxidative Processes—Fundamental and
Engineering Aspects. Van Nostrand Reinhold: New York, 1992.
[4]
Maitra, A.M. Critical Performance Evaluation of Catalysts and Mechanistic
Implications for Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Appl. Catal., A 1993, 104, 11–59.
[5]
Zhang, Z.L.; Verykios, X.E.; Baers, M. Effect of Electronic Properties of Catalysts
for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane on Their Selectivity and Activity. Catal.
Rev. Sci. Eng. 1994, 36, 507–556.
[6]
Bhasin, M.M; Slocum, D.W., Eds. Methane and Alkane Conversion Chemistry.
Plenum Press: New York, 1995.
[7]
Thybaut, J.W.; Sun, J.J.; Olivier, L.; van Veen, A.C.; Mirodatos, C.; Marin, G.B.
Catalyst Design Based on Microkinetic Models: Oxidative Coupling of Methane.
Catal. Today 2011, 159, 29–36.
[8]
Ito, T.; Lunsford, J.H. Synthesis of Ethylene and Ethane by Partial Oxidation of
Methane over Lithium-Doped Magnesium Oxide. Nature 1985, 314, 721–722.
[9]
Ito, T.; Wang, J.X.; Lin, C.H.; Lunsford, J.H. Oxidative Dimerization of Methane
over a Lithium-Promoted Magnesium-Oxide Catalyst. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985,
107, 5062–5068.
[10]
Driscoll, D.J.; Martir, W.; Wang, J.X.; Lunsford, J.H. Formation of Gas-Phase
Methyl Radicals over MgO. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 58–63.
[11]
Lin, C.H.; Ito, T.; Wang, J.X.; Lunsford, J.H. Oxidative Dimerization of Methane
over Magnesium and Calcium Oxide Catalysts Promoted with Group IA Ions: The
Role of [M+O−] Centers. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1987, 109, 4808–4810.
[12]
Iwamatsu, E.; Moriyama, T.; Takasaki, N.; Aika; K. Oxidative Coupling of
Methane over Promoted Magnesium Oxide Catalysts: Relation Between Activity
and Speciﬁc Surface Area. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1988, 36, 373–382.
[13]
Iwamatsu, E.; Moriyama, T.; Takasaki, N.; Aika; K. Oxidative Coupling of
Methane over Na+- and Rb+-Doped MgO Catalysts. J. Catal. 1988, 113, 25–35.
[14]
Iwamatsu, E.; Aika, K.I. Kinetic Analysis of the Oxidative Coupling of Methane
over Na+-Doped MgO. J. Catal. 1989, 117, 416–431.
[15]
Choudhary, V.R.; Pataskar, S.G.; Pandit, M.Y.; Gunjikar, V.G. Thermal Analysis
of Basic Magnesium Carbonate Containing Different Alkali Metal Carbonates.
Thermochim. Acta 1991, 180, 69–80.
[16]
Choudhary,
V.R.;
Rane,
V.H.;
Pandit,
M.Y.
Comparison
of
Alkali
Metal
Promoted MgO Catalysts for Their Surface Acidity/Basicity and Catalytic
Activity/Selectivity in the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. J. Chem. Technol.
Biotechnol. 1997, 68, 177–186.
[17]
Haag, S.; van Veen, A.C.; Mirodatos, C. Inﬂuence of Oxygen Supply Rates on
Performances of Catalytic Membrane Reactors: Application to the Oxidative
Coupling of Methane. Catal. Today 2007, 127, 157–164.
[18]
Olivier, L.; Haag, S.; Mirodatos, C.; van Veen, A.C. Oxidative Coupling of
Methane Using Catalyst Modiﬁed Dense Perovskite Membrane Reactors. Catal.
Today 2009, 142, 34–41.
[19]
Chen, Q.; Couwenberg, P.M.; Marin, G.B. The Oxidative Coupling of Methane
with Cofeeding of Ethane. Catal. Today 1994, 21, 309–319.
[20]
Edwards, J.H.; Tyler, R.J.; White, S.D. Oxidative Coupling of Methane over
Lithium-Promoted Magnesium Oxide Catalysts in Fixed-Bed and Fluidized-Bed
Reactors. Energy Fuels 1990, 4, 85–93.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 497
[21]
Phillips, M.D.; Eastman, A.D. Effect of Li/MgO Methane Coupling Catalyst on
Alonized Steel Reactors. Catal. Lett. 1992, 13, 157–174.
[22]
Slagtern, Å.; Dahl, I.M.; Jens, K.J.; Hansen, E.; Seiersten, M. Reactor Materials
for Use with the Li/MgO Methane Coupling Catalyst. Appl. Catal., A 1992, 91,
13–25.
[23]
Santos, A.; Menéndez, M.; Santamaría, J. Oxidative Coupling of Methane over
Li/Sn/MgO Catalysts. Use of a Fluidized Bed Reactor at Low Gas Velocities.
Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1997, 107, 373–378.
[24]
Miguel, M.P.; Coronas, J.; Meméndez, M.; Santamaría, J. Methane Oxidative
Coupling over Different Alkali-Doped Catalysts: A Comparison of Ceramic
Membrane Reactors and Conventional Fixed Bed Reactors. React. Kinet. Catal.
Lett. 1996, 59, 277–284.
[25]
Taniewski, M.; Lachowicz, A.; Skutil, K.; Czechowicz, D. The Effect of Dilution of
the Catalyst Bed on Its Heat-Transfer Characteristics in Oxidative Coupling of
Methane. Chem. Eng. Sci. 1996, 51, 4271–4278.
[26]
Taniewski, M.; Lachowicz, A.; Skutil, K. Effective Utilisation of the Catalyst Bed
Deactivating in the Course of Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Chem. Eng. Sci.
1997, 52, 935–939.
[27]
Amin, N.A.S.; Pheng, S.E. Inﬂuence of Process Variables and Optimization of
Ethylene Yield in Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Li/MgO Catalyst. Chem.
Eng. J. 2006, 116, 187–195.
[28]
Korf, S.J.; Roos, J.A.; de Bruijn, N.A.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. Oxidative
Coupling of Methane over Lithium Doped Magnesium Oxide Catalysts. Catal.
Today 1988, 2, 535–545.
[29]
Matsuura, I.; Utsumi, Y.; Doi, T. Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Lithium-
Doped Ultraﬁne Crystalline Magnesium Oxide. Appl. Catal. 1989, 47, 299–306.
[30]
Choudhary,
V.R.;
Chaudhari,
S.T.;
Pandit,
M.Y.
Highly
Stable
Li-Doped
Magnesium Oxide Catalyst for Oxidative Conversion of Methane to Higher
Hydrocarbons. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1991, 1158–1159.
[31]
Camino, J.I.; Holgado, M.J.; Rives, V. Li/MgO Catalysts, I. Effect of Precursor
Salts on Their Structural and Surface Properties. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1991,
44, 469–473.
[32]
Camino, J.I.; Holgado, M.J.; Rives, V. Li/MgO Catalysts: II. A DTA and TG Study
of Precursors. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1991, 45, 35–39.
[33]
Holgado, M.J.; Rives, V.; San Roman, S. Li/MgO Catalysts. III. Effect of Precursor
Salts on the Catalytic Activity in Methane Oxidative Coupling. React. Kinet.
Catal. Lett. 1992, 48, 455–460.
[34]
Choudhary, V.R.; Mulla, S.A.R.; Pandit, M.Y.; Chaudhari, S.T.; Rane, V.H.
Inﬂuence of Precursors of Li2O and MgO on Surface and Catalytic Properties
of Li-Promoted MgO in Oxidative Coupling of Methane. J. Chem. Technol.
Biotechnol. 2000, 75, 828–834.
[35]
Kuo, Y.F.; Behrend, F.; Lerch, M. Effect of the Speciﬁc Surface Area of Li/MgO
Catalysts in the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Z. Phys. Chem. 2007, 221,
1017–1037.
[36]
López, T.; Garcia-Cruz, I.; Gomez, R. Synthesis of Magnesium Oxide by the Sol-
Gel Method: Effect of the pH on the Surface Hydroxylation. J. Catal. 1991, 127,
75–85.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
498 S. Arndt et al.
[37]
López, T.; Gómez, R.; Ramírez-Solís, A.; Poulain, E.; Novaro, O. Li/MgO Sol-Gel
Catalysts. J. Mol. Catal. 1994, 88, 71–84.
[38]
Gomez, R.; Lopez, T.; Herrera, L.; Castro, A.A.; Scelza, O.; Baronetti, G.;
Lazzari, E.; Cuan, A.; Campos, M.; Poulain, E.; Ramirez-Solis, A.; Novaro,
O. Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Sol-Gel Magnesium Oxide Catalysts:
Effect on Selectivity to Oleﬁn Formation. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1993, 75,
2213–2216.
[39]
Trionfetti, C.; Babich, I.V.; Seshan, K.; Lefferts, L. Formation of High Surface
Area Li/MgO—Efﬁcient Catalyst for the Oxidative Dehydrogenation/Cracking
of Propane. Appl. Catal., A 2006, 310, 105–113.
[40]
Trionfetti, C.; Babich, I.V.; Seshan, K.; Lefferts, L. Efﬁcient Catalysts for Oleﬁns
from Alkanes: Sol-Gel Synthesis of High Surface Area Nano Scale Mixed Oxide
Clusters. Top. Catal. 2006, 39, 191–198.
[41]
Roussy, G.; Marchal, E.; Thiebaut, J.M.; Kiennemann, A.; Maire, G. C+
2 Selectivity
Enhancement in Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Microwave-Irradiated
Catalysts. Fuel Process. Technol. 1997, 50, 261–274.
[42]
Chevalier, C.H.; Ramirez de la Piscina, P.; Ceruso, M.; Choplin, A.; Basset,
J.M. Oxidative Dimerization of Methane: A Surface Organometallic Approach to
Lithium Doped Magnesia or Silica Catalysts. Catal. Today 1989, 4, 433–439.
[43]
Heitz, S.; Aksu, Y.; Merschjann, C.; Driess, M. Methylmagesium Alkoxide
Clusters with Mg4O4 Cubane- and Mg7O8 Biscubane-Like Cores: Organometallic
Precursors for Low-Temperature Formation of MgO Nanoparticles with Variable
Surface Defects. Chem. Mater. 2010, 22, 1376–1385.
[44]
Heitz, S.; Epping, J.D.; Aksu, Y.; Driess, M. Molecular Heterobimetallic
Approach to Li-Containing MgO Nanoparticles with Variable Li-Concentrations
Using Lithium-Methylmagnesium Alkoxide Clusters. Chem. Mater. 2010, 22,
4563–4571.
[45]
Berger, T.; Schuh, J.; Sterrer, M.; Diwald, O.; Knözinger, E. Lithium Ion Induced
Surface Reactivity Changes on MgO Nanoparticles. J. Catal. 2007, 247, 61–67.
[46]
Martin, G.A.; Turlier, P.; Ducarme, V.; Mirodatos, C.; Pinabiau, M. Beneﬁcial
Effect of Silica Addition to Li/MgO Catalysts Used for the Oxidative Coupling
of Methane. Catal. Today 1990, 6, 373–380.
[47]
Sarkas, H.W.; Arnold, S.T.; Hendricks, J.H.; Kidder, L.H.; Jones, C.A.; Bowen,
K.H. An Investigation of Catalytic Activity in Mixed Metal Oxide Nanophase
Materials. Z. Phys. D: At. Mol. Clusters 1993, 26, 46–50.
[48]
Choudhary, V.R.; Mulla, S.A.R.; Uphade, B.S. Inﬂuence of Support on Surface
Basicity and Catalytic Activity in Oxidative Coupling of Methane of Li-
MgO Deposited on Different Commercial Catalyst Carriers. J. Chem. Technol.
Biotechnol. 1998, 72, 99–104.
[49]
Zavyalova, U.; Girgsdies, F.; Korup, O.; Horn, R.; Schlögl, R. Microwave-
Assisted Self-Propagating Combustion Synthesis for Uniform Deposition of
Metal Nanoparticles on Ceramic Monoliths. J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113,
17493–17501.
[50]
Zavyalova, U.; Geske, M.; Horn, R.; Weinberg, G.; Frandsen, W.; Schuster, M.;
Schlögl, R. Morphology and Microstructure of Li/MgO Catalysts for the Oxidative
Coupling of Methane. ChemCatChem 2010, 3, 949–959.
[51]
Baerns, M. Methane Conversion by Oxidative Processes. Van Nostrand Reinhold:
New York, 1992, pp. 382–402.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 499
[52]
Käßner, P.; Baerns, M. Comparative Characterization of Basicity and Acidity
of Metal Oxide Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane by Different
Methods. Appl. Catal., A 1996, 139, 107–129.
[53]
Davydov, A.A.; Shepotko, M.L.; Budneva, A.A. Basic Sites on the Oxide Surfaces:
Their Effect on the Catalytic Methane Coupling. Catal. Today 1995, 24, 225–230.
[54]
Davydov, A.A. Basic Sites on the Surface of Oxide Catalysts Responsible for
Oxidative Methane Coupling. Chem. Eng. Technol. 1995, 18, 7–11.
[55]
Ku´
s, S.; Otremba, M.; Tórz, A.; Taniewski, M. The Effect of Gas Atmosphere Used
in the Calcination of MgO on Its Basicity and Catalytic Performance in Oxidative
Coupling of Methane. Appl. Catal., A 2002, 230, 263–270.
[56]
Ku´
s, S.; Taniewski, M. The Effect of Some Impurities on the Basicity of MgO
Tested by the Transformation of 2-Butanol and on Its Catalytic Performance in
Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Fuel Process. Technol. 2002, 76, 41–49.
[57]
Bailly, M.L.; Chizallet, C.; Costentin, G.; Krafft, J.M.; Lauron-Pernot, H.; Che,
M. A Spectroscopy and Catalysis Study of the Nature of Active Sites of MgO
Catalysts: Thermodynamic Brønsted Basicity Versus Reactivity of Basic Sites. J.
Catal. 2005, 235, 413–422.
[58]
Chizallet, C.; Costentin, G.; Lauron-Pernot, H.; Che, M.; Bonhomme, C.; Maquet,
J.; Delbecq, F.; Sautet, P. Study of the Structure of OH Groups on MgO by 1D and
2D 1H MAS NMR Combined with DFT Cluster Calculations. J. Phys. Chem. C
2007, 111, 18279–18287.
[59]
Chizallet, C.; Petitjean, H.; Costentin, C.; Lauron-Pernot, H.; Maquet, J.;
Bonhomme, C.; Che, M. Identiﬁcation of the OH groups responsible for kinetic
basicity on MgO surfaces by 1H MAS NMR. J. Catal. 2009, 268, 175–179.
[60]
Choudhary, V.R.; Rane, V.H.; Chaudhari, S.T. Inﬂuence of Various Promoters on
the Basicity and Catalytic Activity of MgO Catalysts in Oxidative Coupling of
Methane. Catal. Lett. 1990, 6, 95–98.
[61]
Díez, V.K.; Apesteguía, C.R.; Di Cosimo, J.I. Acid-Base Properties and Active
Site Requirements for Elimination Reactions on Alkali-Promoted MgO Catalysts.
Catal. Today 2000, 63, 53–62.
[62]
Martin, G.A.; Mirodatos, C. Methane Conversion by Oxidative Processes. Van
Nostrand Reinhold, 1992, pp. 351–381.
[63]
Spoto, G.; Gribov, E.N.; Ricchiardi, G.; Damin, A.; Scarano, D.; Bordiga, S.;
Lamberti, C.; Zecchina, A. Carbon Monoxide MgO from Dispersed Solids to Single
Crystals: A Review and New Advances. Prog. Surf. Sci. 2004, 76, 71–146.
[64]
Choudhary, V.R.; Rane, V.H.; Gadre, R.V. Inﬂuence of Precursors Used in
Preparation of MgO on Its Surface Properties and Catalytic Activity in Oxidative
Coupling of Methane. J. Catal. 1994, 145, 300–311.
[65]
Choudhary, V.R.; Pataskar, S.G.; Gunjikar, V.G.; Zope, G.B. Inﬂuence of
Preparation Conditions of Basic Magnesium Carbonate on its Thermal Analysis.
Thermochim. Acta 1994, 232, 95–110.
[66]
Choudhary, V.R.; Pataskar, S.G.; Zope, G.B.; Chaudhari, P.N. Surface Properties
of Magnesium Oxide Obtained from Basic Magnesium Carbonate: Inﬂuence of
Preparation Conditions of Magnesium Carbonate. J. Chem. Technol. Biotechnol.
1995, 64, 407–413.
[67]
Choudhary,
V.R.;
Pandit,
M.Y.
Surface
Properties
of
Magnesium
Oxide
Obtained from Magnesium Hydroxide: Inﬂuence on Preparation and Calcination
Conditions of Magnesium Hydroxide. Appl. Catal. 1991, 71, 265–274.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
500 S. Arndt et al.
[68]
Ardizzone, S.; Bianchi, C.L.; Fadoni, M.; Vercelli, B. Magnesium Salts and Oxide:
An XPS Overview. Appl. Surf. Sci. 1997, 119, 253–259.
[69]
Ardizzone, S.; Bianchi, C.L.; Vercelli, B. MgO Powders: Interplay between
Adsorbed Species and Localisation of Basic Sites. Appl. Surf. Sci. 1998, 126,
169–175.
[70]
Mellor, I.M.; Burrows, A.; Coluccia, S.; Hargreaves, J.S.J.; Joyner, R.W.; Kiely,
C.J.; Martra, G.; Stockenhuber, M.; Tang, W.M. Probing Possible Structure
Sensitivity in the Exchange of Isotopic Oxygen with the Surface of MgO. J. Catal.
2005, 234, 14–23.
[71]
Kimble, J.B.; Kolts, J.H. Playing Matchmaker with Methane. Chem. Tech. 1987,
17, 501–505.
[72]
Lee, J.S.; Oyama, S.T. Oxidative Coupling of Methane to Higher Hydrocarbons.
Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 1988, 30, 249–280.
[73]
Kimble, J.B.; Kolts, J.H. Oxidative Coupling of Methane to Higher Hydrocarbons.
Energy Progr. 1986, 6, 226–229.
[74]
Korf, S.J.; Roos, J.A.; de Bruijn, N.A.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. Lithium
Chemistry of Lithium Doped Magnesium Oxide Catalysts Used in the Oxidative
Coupling of Methane. Appl. Catal. 1990, 58, 131–146.
[75]
Galuszka, J. Carbon Dioxide Chemistry During Oxidative Coupling of Methane
on a Li/MgO Catalyst. Catal. Today 1994, 21, 321–331.
[76]
Turek, A.M.; Wachs, I.E.; DeCanio, E. Acidic Properties of Alumina-Supported
Metal Oxide Catalysts: An Infrared Spectroscopy Study. J. Phys. Chem. 1992, 96,
5000–5007.
[77]
Busca, G.; Lorenzelli, V. Infrared Spectroscopic Identiﬁcation of Species Arising
from Reactive Adsorption of Carbon Oxides on Metal Oxide Surfaces. Mater.
Chem. 1982, 7, 89–126.
[78]
Spencer, M.S.; Lunsford, J.H.; Roberts, M.W.; Cunningham, J.; Burch, R.; Krylov,
O.V.; Moffat, J.B.; Hutchings, G.J.; Joyner, R.W.; Ichikawa, M.; Datye, A.K.;
Haber, J.; Serwicka, E.M.; Thomas, J.M. General Discussion. Faraday Discuss.
Chem. Soc. 1989, 87, 47–64.
[79]
Hutchings, G.J.; Scurrell, M.S.; Woodhouse, J. Oxidative Coupling of Methane
Using Li/MgO Catalyst: Re-Appraisal of the Optimum Loading of Li. Catal. Lett.
1990, 5, 301–308.
[80]
Hargreaves, J.S.J.; Hutchings, G.J.; Joyner, R.W. Structural Aspects of the
Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Catal. Today 1990, 6, 481–488.
[81]
Hargreaves, J.S.J.; Hutchings, G.J.; Joyner, R.W.; Kiely, C.J. Structural Aspects of
Magnesium Oxide Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Catal. Today
1991, 10, 259–266.
[82]
Hargreaves, J.S.J.; Hutchings, G.J.; Joyner, R.W.; Kiely, C.J. The Relationship
between Catalyst Morphology and Performance in the Oxidative Coupling of
Methane. J. Catal. 1992, 135, 576–595.
[83]
Hargreaves, J.S.J.; Hutchings, G.J.; Joyner, R.W.; Kiely, C.J. Relationship
between Morphology and Catalytic Performance of Lithium and Gold Doped
Magnesium Oxide Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Catal. Today
1992, 13, 401–407.
[84]
Lewis, D.W.; Grimes, R.W.; Catlow, C.R.A. Defect Processes at Low Coordinate
Surface Sites of MgO and Their Role in the Partial Oxidation of Hydrocarbons. J.
Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 1995, 100, 103–114.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 501
[85]
Lunsford, J.H.; Cisneros, M.D.; Hinson, P.G.; Tong, Y.D.; Zhang, H.S. Oxidative
Dimerization of Methane over Well Deﬁned Lithium-Promoted Magnesium Oxide
Catalysts. Faraday Discuss. Chem. Soc. 1989, 87, 13–21.
[86]
Choudhary, V.R.; Rajput, A.M.; Akolekar, D.B.; Seleznev, V.A. Oxidative
Conversion of Methane to C2-Hydrocarbons over Lithium, Manganese, Cadmium
and Zinc Promoted MgO Catalysts I. Catalyst Performance in Presence of Free
Oxygen. Appl. Catal. 1990, 62, 171–187.
[87]
Choudhary,
V.R.;
Sansare,
S.D.;
Rajput,
A.M.;
Akolekar,
D.B.
Oxidative
Conversion of Methane to C2 Hydrocarbons over Li, Mn, Cd and Zn Promoted
MgO Catalysts II: Performance of Fresh and Reoxidised Catalysts in the Absence
of Free Oxygen. Appl. Catal. 1991, 69, 187–200.
[88]
Sinev, M.Y.; Bychkov, V.Y.; Korchak, V.N.; Krylov, O.V. Oxidative Coupling of
Methane with Participation of Oxide Catalyst Lattice Oxygen. Catal. Today 1990,
6, 543–549.
[89]
Taniewski, M.; Lachowicz, A.; Lachowicz, R.; Czechowicz, D.; Skutil, K. Evidence
for a High Oxygen Mobility in Li/MgO. Catal. Lett. 1994, 26, 355–363.
[90]
Anderson,
A.G.;
Norby,
T.
Liquid
Phases
in
Li:MgO
as
Studied
by
Thermoanalytical Methods, Electron Microscopy, and Electrical Conductivity
Measurements. Catal. Today 1990, 6, 575–586.
[91]
Mitoff, S.P. Bulk Versus Surface Conductivity of MgO Crystals. J. Chem. Phys.
1964, 41, 2561–2562.
[92]
Haggin, J. Oxidative Coupling Technology May Offer New Route To Oleﬁns.
Chem. Eng. News 1990, 68, 26–28.
[93]
Norby, T.; Anderson, A.G. Electrical Conductivity and Defect Structure of
Lithium-Doped Magnesium Oxide. Appl. Catal. 1991, 71, 89–102.
[94]
Balint, I.; Aika, K.I. Defect Chemistry of Lithium-Doped Magnesium Oxide. J.
Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1997, 93, 1797–1801.
[95]
Balint, I.; Aika, K.I. Speciﬁc Defect Sites Creation by Doping MgO with Lithium
and Titanium. Appl. Surf. Sci. 2001, 173, 296–306.
[96]
Tardío, M.M.; Ramírez, R.; González, R.; Chen, Y. p-Type Semiconducting
Properties in Lithium-Doped MgO Single Crystals. Phys. Rev. B 2002, 66, 134202.
[97]
Balint, I.; Aika, K.I. Study on Surface DC Conductivity of Various MgO Catalysts:
Nature of Defect and the Role in Methane Activation. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994,
81, 177–186.
[98]
Balint, I.; Aika, K.I. Interaction of Water with 1% Li/MgO: DC Conductivity of
Li/MgO Catalyst for Methane Selective Activation. J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans.
1995, 91, 1805–1811.
[99]
Abraham, M.M.; Butler, C.T.; Chen, Y. Growth of High-Purity and Doped Alkaline
Earth Oxides: I. MgO and CaO. J. Chem. Phys. 1971, 55, 3752–3756.
[100] Schirmer, O.F. Trapped-Hole Centers Containing Lithium in MgO, CaO and SrO.
J. Phys. Chem. Solids 1971, 32, 499–509.
[101] Abraham, M.M.; Unruh, W.P.; Chen, Y. Electron-Nuclear-Double-Resonance
Investigations of [Li]0 and [Na]0 Centers in MgO, CaO, and SrO. Phys. Rev. B
1974, 10, 3540–3545.
[102] Rius, G.; Herve, A. Endor Spectrum of the VLi Center in MgO at 4.2 K. Solid State
Commun. 1974, 15, 399–402.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
502 S. Arndt et al.
[103] Chen, Y.; Tohver, H.T.; Narayan, J.; Abraham, M.M. High-Temperature and
Ionization-Induced Effects in Lithium-Doped MgO Single Crystals. Phys. Rev. B
1977, 16, 5535–5542.
[104] Chen, Y.; Montesa, E.; Boldú, J.L.; Abraham, M.M. Neutron Irradiations in
Oxidized Lithium-Doped MgO Crystals. Phys. Rev. B 1981, 24, 5–10.
[105] Narayan, J.; Abraham, M.M.; Chen, Y.; Tohver, H.T. Transmission Electron
Microscope Studies on Li-Doped MgO. Philos. Mag. A 1978, 38, 247–257.
[106] Lacey, J.B.; Abraham, M.M.; Boldú, J.L.; Chen, Y.; Narayan, J.; Tohver, H.T.
Oxidation and Reduction of Lithium-Containing MgO at High Temperatures.
Phys. Rev. B 1978, 18, 4136–4142.
[107] Boldu, J.L.; Abraham, M.M.; Chen, Y. Valence Compensation of Thermally
Generated [Li]0 Defects in MgO. Phys. Rev. B 1979, 19, 4421–4426.
[108] Olson, D.N.; Orera, V.M.; Chen, Y.; Abraham, M.M. Thermally generated [Li]0
Centers in CaO. Phys. Rev. B 1980, 21, 1258–1263.
[109] Chen,
Y.;
Abraham,
M.M.;
Boldu,
J.L.;
Orera,
V.M.
Current-Voltage
Characteristics of Li-Doped MgO Oxidized at Elevated Temperatures. J.
Phys. Colloques 1980, 41, C6–398–C6–400.
[110] Chen, Y.; Abraham, M.M. Trapped-Hole Centers in Alkaline-Earth Oxides. J.
Phys. Chem. Solids 1990, 51, 747–764.
[111] Gonzalez, R.; Chen, Y.; Tsang, K.L. Diffusion of Deuterium and Hydrogen in
Doped and Undoped MgO Crystals. Phys. Rev. B 1982, 26, 4637–4645.
[112] González, R.; Chen, Y. Deuteron Diffusion and Photoluminescence in Lithium-
Doped MgO Crystals. Phys. Rev. B 1987, 35, 8202–8206.
[113] Anpo, M.; Sunamoto, M.; Doi, T.; Matsuura, I. Oxidative Coupling of Methane
over Ultraﬁne Crystalline MgO Doped with Li. Role of Lower Coordinative
Surface Sites Produced by Li-Doping. Chem. Lett. 1988, 17, 701–704.
[114] Padró, C.L.; Grosso, W.E.; Baronetti, G.T.; Castro, A.A.; Scelza, O.A. Surface
Characterization and Catalytic Behavior of Li/MgO in Oxidative Coupling of
Methane. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 82, 411–418.
[115] Aritani, H.; Yamada, H.; Nishio, T.; Imamura, S.; Hasegawa, S.; Tanaka, T.;
Yoshida, S. Formation of Defects in Near-Surface Region over Li or Mn-Doped
MgO Studied by Mg K-Edge XANES. Chem. Lett. 1999, 28, 359–360.
[116] Aritani, H.; Yamada, H.; Nishio, T.; Shiono, T.; Imamura, S.; Kudo, M.; Hasegawa,
S.; Tanaka, T.; Yoshida, S. Characterisation of Li-Doped MgO Catalysts for
Oxidative Coupling of Methane by Means of Mg K-Edge XANES. J. Phys. Chem.
B 2000, 104, 10133–10143.
[117] Trionfetti, C.; Babich, I.V.; Seshan, K.; Lefferts, L. Presence of Lithium Ions in
MgO Lattice: Surface Characterization by Infrared Spectroscopy and Reactivity
towards Oxidative Conversion of Propane. Langmuir 2008, 24, 8220–8228.
[118] Myrach, P.; Nilius, N.; Levchenko, S.V.; Gonchar, A.; Risse, T.; Dinse, K.P.;
Boatner, L.A.; Frandsen, W.; Horn, R.; Freund, H.J.; Schlögl, R.; Schefﬂer,
M. Temperature-Dependent Morphology, Magnetic and Optical Properties of
Li-Doped MgO. ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 854–862.
[119] Mirodatos, C.; Perrichon, V.; Durupty, M.C.; Moral, P. Deactivation of Alkali
Promoted Magnesia in Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal.
1987, 34, 183–195.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 503
[120] Iwamatsu, E.; Moriyama, T.; Takasaki, N.; Aika; K.I. Importance of the Speciﬁc
Surface Area of the Catalyst in the Oxidative Dimerization of Methane over
Promoted Magnesium Oxide. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1987, 19–20.
[121] Perrichon, V.; Durupty, M.C. Thermal Stability of Alkali Metals Deposited on
Oxide Supports and Their Inﬂuence on the Surface Area of the Support. Appl.
Catal. 1988, 42, 217–227.
[122] Mirodatos, C.; Martin, G.A.; Bertolini, J.C.; Saint-Just, J. The Nature, Role and
Fate of Surface Active Sites in Li/MgO Oxidative Coupling Catalysts. Catal.
Today 1989, 4, 301–310.
[123] van Kasteren, J.M.N.; Geerts, J.W.M.H.; van der Wiele, K. Working Principle of
Li Doped MgO Applied for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Stud. Surf. Sci.
Catal. 1990, 55, 343–349.
[124] Korf, S.J.; Roos, J.A.; de Bruijn, N.A.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. Inﬂuence of
CO2 on the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over a Lithium Promoted Magnesium
Oxide Catalyst. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1987, 1433–1434.
[125] Swaan, H.M.; Li, Y.; Seshan, K.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. The Oxidative
Coupling of Methane and the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane over a
Niobium Promoted Lithium Doped Magnesium Oxide Catalyst. Catal. Today
1993, 16, 537–546.
[126] Aigler, J.M.; Lunsford, J.H. Oxidative Dimerization of Methane over MgO and
Li+/MgO Monoliths. Appl. Catal. 1991, 70, 29–42.
[127] Roos, J.A.; Bakker, A.G.; Bosch, H.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. Selective
Oxidation of Methane to Ethane and Ethylene over Various Oxide Catalysts.
Catal. Today 1987, 1, 133–145.
[128] Hutchings, G.J.; Scurrell, M.S.; Woodhouse, J.R. Effect of O3 versus O2 as
Oxidants for Methane. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1988, 36, 415–419.
[129] Al-Zahrani, S.M.S.; Song, Q.; Lobban, L.L. Effects of CO2 during Oxidative
Coupling of Methane over Li/MgO: Mechanisms and Models. Ind. Eng. Chem.
Res. 1994, 33, 251–258.
[130] Al-Zahrani, S.M.S.; Lobban, L.L. Effects of Steam and Liquid Water Treatment
on the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over a Li/MgO Catalyst. Ind. Eng. Chem.
Res. 1995, 34, 1060–1073.
[131] Al-Zahrani, S.M.S.; Lobban, L.L. The Effects of Gas Composition and Process
Conditions on the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Li/MgO Catalyst. Stud.
Surf. Sci. Catal. 1996, 100, 383–396.
[132] Baerns, M.; Ross, J.R.H. Perspectives in Catalysis. IUPAC International Union of
Pure and Applied Chemistry: Oxford, 1992, pp. 315–335.
[133] Roos, J.A.; Korf, S.J.; Bakker, A.G.; de Bruijn, N.A.; van Ommen, J.G.; J.R.H.Ross.
The Oxidative Coupling of Methane: Catalyst Requirements and Process
Conditions. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1988, 36, 427–432.
[134] Peng, X.D.; Richards, D.A.; Stair, P.C. Surface Composition and Reactivity of
Lithium-Doped Magnesium Oxide Catalysts for Oxidative Coupling of Methane.
J. Catal. 1990, 121, 99–109.
[135] Hutchings, G.J.; Scurrell, M.S.; Woodhouse, J.R. The Role of Surface O−in
the Selective Oxidation of Methane. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1987,
1388–1389.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
504 S. Arndt et al.
[136] Bi, Y.L.; Zhen, K.J.; Jiang, Y.T.; Teng, C.W.; Yang, X.G. Catalytic Oxidative
Coupling of Methane over Alkali, Alkaline Earth and Rare Earth Metal Oxides.
Appl. Catal. 1988, 39, 185–190.
[137] Machocki, A. Oxidative Coupling of Methane at Moderate (600–650
◦C)
Temperatures. Catal. Lett. 1994, 26, 85–93.
[138] Asami, K.; Omata, K.; Fujimoto, K.; Tominaga, H. Oxidative Coupling of Methane
in the Homogeneous Gas Phase under Pressure. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun.
1987, 1287–1288.
[139] Ekstrom, A.; Regtop, R.; Bhargava, S. Effect of Pressure on the Oxidative
Coupling of Methane. Appl. Catal. 1990, 62, 253–269.
[140] Lane, G.S.; Wolf, E.E. Methane Utilization by Oxidative Coupling: I. A Study
of Reactions in the Gas Phase during the Cofeeding of Methane and Oxygen. J.
Catal. 1988, 113, 144–163.
[141] Pinabiau-Carlier, M.; Ben Hadid, A.; Cameron, C.J. The Effect of Total Pressure
on the Oxidative Coupling of Methane Reaction under Cofeed Conditions. Stud.
Surf. Sci. Catal. 1991, 61, 183–190.
[142] Chen, Q.; Couwenberg, P.M.; Marin, G.B. Effect of Pressure on the Oxidative
Coupling of Methane in the Absence of Catalyst. AlChE J. 1994, 40, 521–535.
[143] Chen, Q.; Hoebink, J.H.B.J.; Marin, G.B. Kinetics of the Oxidative Coupling of
Methane at Atmospheric Pressure in the Absence of Catalyst. Ind. Eng. Chem.
Res. 1991, 30, 2088–2097.
[144] Parida, K.M.; Rao, S.B. Importance of Speciﬁc Surface Area and Basic Sites of
the Catalyst in Oxidative Coupling of CH4 over Li/MgO Catalysts Prepared by
Precipitation Methods. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1991, 44, 95–101.
[145] Aika, K.; Fujimoto, N.; Kobayashi, M.; Iwamatsu, E. Oxidative Coupling
of Methane over Various Metal Oxides Supported on Strontium Carbonate
Catalysts. J. Catal. 1991, 127, 1–8.
[146] Rynkowski, J.; Ka´
zmierczak, A.; Pra´
zmowska-Wilanowski, A.; Paryjczak, T.
Inﬂuence of Calcination and Lithium Promotion on the Surface Properties of
Oxide Supports. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1996, 58, 169–175.
[147] Abraham, M.M.; Chen, Y.; Boatner, L.A.; Reynolds, R.W. Stable [Li]0 Defects in
MgO Single Crystals. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1976, 37, 849–852.
[148] Driscoll, D.J.; Martir, W.; Wang, J.X.; Lunsford, J.H. The Production of Gas Phase
Methyl Radicals over Lithium-Promoted MgO. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1985, 21,
403–408.
[149] Yates, D.J.C.; Zlotin, N.E. Blank Reactor Corrections in Studies of the Oxidative
Dehydrogenation of Methane. J. Catal. 1988, 111, 317–324.
[150] Liu, H.F.; Liu, R.S.; Liew, K.Y.; Johnson, R.E.; Lunsford, J.H. Partial Oxidation of
Methane by Nitrous Oxide over Molybdenum on Silica. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1984,
106, 4117–4121.
[151] Hatano, M.; Hinson, P.G.; Vines, K.S.; Lunsford, J.H. Comments on “Blank
Reactor Corrections in Studies of the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Methane”
by D. J. C. Yates and N. E. Zlotin. J. Catal. 1990, 124, 557–561.
[152] Yates, D.J.C.; Zlotin, N.E. Reply to Hatano, Hinson, Vines, and Lunsford’s com-
ments on “Blank Reactor Corrections in Studies of Oxidative Dehydrogenation of
Methane”. J. Catal. 1990, 124, 562–565.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 505
[153] Yates, D.J.C.; Zlotin, N.E.; McHenry, J.A. Supported Lithium Tetraborate as a
Catalyst for the Continuous Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Methane. J. Catal.
1989, 117, 290–294.
[154] Kalenik, Z.; Wolf, E.E. Methane Conversion by Oxidative Processes. Van Nostrand
Reinhold: New York, 1992, pp. 30–77.
[155] Hutchings, G.J.; Scurrell, M.S.; Woodhouse, J.R. The Role of Gas Phase Reaction
in the Selective Oxidation of Methane. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1988,
253–255.
[156] Hutchings, G.J.; Scurrell, M.S.; Woodhouse, J.R. Comparison of Ethene and
Ethane Primary Selectivities with Li/MgO and MgO Catalysts for Oxidative
Coupling of Methane: Comments on the Role of Lithium. J. Chem. Soc., Chem.
Commun. 1987, 1862–1863.
[157] Roos, J.A.; Korf, S.J.; Veehof, R.H.J.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. Reaction Path
of the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over a Lithium-Doped Magnesium Oxide
Catalyst. Appl. Catal. 1989, 52, 147–156.
[158] Roos, J.A.; Korf, S.J.; Veehof, R.H.J.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. Kinetic
and Mechanistic Aspects of the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over a Li/MgO
Catalyst. Appl. Catal. 1989, 52, 131–145.
[159] Lunsford, J.H.; Qiu, P.; Rosynek, M.P.; Yu, Z.Q. Catalytic Conversion of Methane
and Ethylene to Propylene. J. Phys. Chem. B 1998, 102, 167–173.
[160] Schuurman, Y.; Mirodatos, C. Uses of Transient Kinetics for Methane Activation
Studies. Appl. Catal., A 1997, 151, 305–331.
[161] Nibbelke, R.H.; Scheerová, J.; de Croon, M.H.J.M.; Marin, G.B. The Oxidative
Coupling of Methane over MgO-Based Catalysts: A Steady-State Isotope
Transient Kinetic Analysis. J. Catal. 1995, 156, 106–119.
[162] Peil, K.P.; Goodwin, Jr., J.G.; Marcelin, G. An Examination of the Oxygen
Pathway during Methane Oxidation over a Lithium/Magnesia Catalyst. J. Phys.
Chem. 1989, 93, 5977–5979.
[163] Peil, K.P.; Goodwin, Jr., J.G.; Marcelin, G. Inﬂuence of Product CO2 on the Overall
Reaction Network in the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal.
1991, 61, 73–79.
[164] Peil, K.P.; Goodwin, Jr., J.G.; Marcelin, G. Surface Phenomena during the
Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Li/MgO. J. Catal. 1991, 131, 143–155.
[165] Dahl, I.M.; Jens, K.J.; Kvisle, S.; Slagtern, Å. Pulse Reactor Characterization
Studies of a Li/MgO Catalyst for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Stud. Surf.
Sci. Catal. 1991, 61, 81–87.
[166] Choudhary, V.R.; Rane, V.H.; Chaudhari, S.T. Pulse Reactions of Methane,
Ethane and Ethylene over Li-, La- and Sm-Promoted MgO Catalysts in the
Presence and Absence of Free Oxygen. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1998, 63,
371–377.
[167] Keulks, G.W.; Liao, N.; An, W.; Li, D. Temperature-Programmed Studies of
Surface Oxygen Species in the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Stud. Surf. Sci.
Catal. 1993, 75, 2253–2256.
[168] Bhumkar, S.C.; Lobban, L.L. Diffuse Reﬂectance Infrared and Transient Studies
of Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Lithium/Magnesia Catalyst. Ind. Eng.
Chem. Res. 1992, 31, 1856–1864.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
506 S. Arndt et al.
[169] Nakamura, M.; Yanagibashi, H.; Mitsuhashi, H.; Takezawa, N. Adsorbed Oxygen
Species Formed by the Decomposition of N2O on Li/MgO Catalysts. Bull. Chem.
Soc. Jpn. 1993, 66, 2467–2472.
[170] Hutchings, G.J.; Scurrell, M.S.; Woodhouse, J.R. Oxidative Coupling of Methane
Using Oxide Catalysts. Chem. Soc. Rev. 1989, 18, 251–283.
[171] Hutchings, G.J.; Scurrell, M.S. Methane Conversion by Oxidative Processes. Van
Nostrand Reinhold: New York, 1992, pp. 200–258.
[172] Hutchings, G.J.; Woodhouse, J.R.; Scurrell, M.S. Partial Oxidation of Methane
over Oxide Catalysts. Comments on the Reaction Mechanism. J. Chem. Soc.,
Faraday Trans. 1 1989, 85, 2507–2523.
[173] Cunningham, J.; McNamara, D. Activation of Methane, Oxygen and Nitrous
Oxide over Surface-Doped MgO Materials: I. Conversions in N2O, (N2O + CH4)
and (O2 + CH4) reactants. Catal. Today 1990, 6, 551–558.
[174] Hutchings, G.J.; Scurrell, M.S.; Woodhouse, J.R. Selective Oxidation of Methane
in the Presence of NO: New Evidence on the Reaction Mechanism. J. Chem. Soc.,
Chem. Commun. 1989, 765–766.
[175] Hutchings, G.J.; Scurrell, M.S.; Woodhouse, J.R. Selective Oxidation of Methane
in the Presence of Nitric Oxide: Comments on the Reaction Mechanism. Catal.
Today 1990, 6, 399–407.
[176] Hutchings, G.J.; Scurrell, M.S.; Woodhouse, J.R. Direct Partial Oxidation of
Methane: Effect of the Oxidant on the Reaction. Appl. Catal. 1988, 38, 156–165.
[177] Shi, C.L.; Xu, M.T.; Rosynek, M.P.; Lunsford, J.H. Origin of Kinetic Isotope Effects
during the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over a Li+/MgO Catalyst. J. Phys.
Chem. 1993, 97, 216–222.
[178] Yamamoto, H.; Chu, H.Y.; Xu, M.T.; Shi, C.L.; Lunsford, J.H. Oxidative Coupling
of Methane over a Li+/MgO Catalyst Using N2O as an Oxidant. J. Catal. 1993,
142, 325–336.
[179] Davydov, A.A.; Budneva, A.A.; Aliev, S.M.; Sokolovskii, V.D. IR Spectra of
Methane Adsorbed on MgO. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1988, 36, 491–495.
[180] Wang, D.J.; Xu, M.T.; Shi, C.L.; Lunsford, J.H. Effect of Carbon Dioxide on the
Selectivities Obtained during the Partial Oxidation of Methane and Ethane over
Li+/MgO Catalysts. Catal. Lett. 1993, 18, 323–328.
[181] Morales, E.; Lunsford, J.H. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane over a Lithium-
Promoted Magnesium Oxide Catalyst. J. Catal. 1989, 118, 255–265.
[182] Xu, M.T.; Shi, C.L.; Yang, X.M.; Rosynek, M.P.; Lunsford, J.H. Effect of
Carbon Dioxide on the Activation Energy for Methyl Radical Generation over
Lithium/Magnesia Catalysts. J. Phys. Chem. 1992, 96, 6395–6398.
[183] Coulter, K.; Goodman, D.W. The Role of Carbon-Dioxide in the Oxidative
Dimerization of Methane over Li/MgO. Catal. Lett. 1993, 20, 169–178.
[184] Cant, N.W.; Lukey, C.A.; Nelson, P.F.; Tyler, R.J. The Rate Controlling Step in
the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over a Lithium-Promoted Magnesium Oxide
Catalyst. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1988, 766–768.
[185] Lapszewicz, J.A.; Jiang, X.Z. Investigation of Reactivity and Selectivity of
Methane Coupling Catalysts Using Isotope Exchange Techniques. Catal. Lett.
1992, 13, 103–116.
[186] Martin, G.A.; Mirodatos, C. Evidence of Carbene Formation in Oxidative
Coupling of Methane over Lithium-promoted Magnesium Oxide. J. Chem. Soc.,
Chem. Commun. 1987, 1393–1394.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 507
[187] Mims, C.A.; Hall, R.B.; Rose, K.D.; Myers, G.R. Oxidative Dimerization of
CH4/CD4 Mixtures: Evidence for Methyl Intermediate. Catal. Lett. 1989, 2,
361–368.
[188] Martin, G.A.; Bernal, S.; Perrichon, V.; Mirodatos, C. Hetero-homogeneous
Processes
Involved
in
Oxidative
Conversion
of
Methane,
Ethane
and
Hydrocarbon Mixtures over Basic Oxides. Catal. Today 1992, 13, 487–494.
[189] Geerts, J.W.M.H.; van Kasteren, J.M.N.; van der Wiele, K. The Investigation of
Individual Reaction Steps in the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Lithium
Doped Magnesium Oxide. Catal. Today 1989, 4, 453–461.
[190] Campbell, K.D.; Lunsford, J.H. Contribution of Gas-Phase Radical Coupling in
the Catalytic Oxidation of Methane. J. Phys. Chem. 1988, 92, 5792–5796.
[191] van Kasteren, J.M.N.; Geerts, J.W.M.H.; van der Wiele, K. The Role of
Heterogeneous Reactions during the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over
Li/MgO Catalysts. Catal. Today 1990, 6, 497–502.
[192] Campbell, K.D.; Morales, E.; Lunsford, J.H. Gas-Phase Coupling of Methyl
Radicals during the Catalytic Partial Oxidation of Methane. J. Am. Chem. Soc.
1987, 109, 7900–7901.
[193] Nelson, P.F.; Lukey, C.A.; Cant, N.W. Isotopic Evidence for Direct Methyl
Coupling and Ethane to Ethylene Conversion during Partial Oxidation of
Methane over Lithium/Magnesium Oxide. J. Phys. Chem. 1988, 92, 6176–6179.
[194] Nelson, P.F.; Cant, N.W. Oxidation of C2 Hydrocarbon Products during the
Oxidative Coupling of Methane over a Li/MgO Catalyst. J. Phys. Chem. 1990,
94, 3756–3761.
[195] Nelson, P.F.; Kennedy, E.M.; Cant, N.W. Isotopic Labelling Studies of the
Mechanism of the Catalytic Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Stud. Surf. Sci.
Catal. 1991, 61, 89–95.
[196] Utiyama, M.; Hattari, H.; Tanabe, K. Exchange Reaction of Methane with
Deuterium over Solid Base Catalysts. J. Catal. 1978, 53, 237–242.
[197] Hargreaves, J.S.J.; Hutchings, G.J.; Joyner, R.W.; Taylor, S.H. A Study of the
Methane Deuterium Exchange Reaction over a Range of Metal Oxides. Appl.
Catal., A 2002, 227, 191–200.
[198] Buyevskaya, O.V.; Rothaemel, M.; Zanthoff, H.W.; Baerns, M. Transient Studies
on Reaction Steps in the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Catalytic Surfaces
of MgO and Sm2O3. J. Catal. 1994, 146, 346–357.
[199] Balint, I.; Aika, K.I. Temperature-Programmed Desorption Study of Water-Gas
Shift and Methane Steam-Reforming Reactions over Li/MgO Catalyst. Appl.
Catal., A 2000, 196, 209–215.
[200] Hargreaves, J.S.J.; Hutchings, G.J.; Joyner, R.W. Control of Product Selectivity in
the Partial Oxidation of Methane. Nature 1990, 348, 428–429.
[201] van Kasteren, J.M.N.; Geerts, J.W.M.H.; van der Wiele, K. Methane Oxidative
Coupling Using Li/MgO Catalysts: The Importance of Consecutive Reactions.
Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1991, 61, 139–146.
[202] Martin, G.A.; Bates, A.; Ducarme, V.; Mirodatos, C. Oxidative Conversion of
Methane and C2 Hydrocarbons on Oxides: Homogeneous versus Heterogeneous
Processes. Appl. Catal. 1989, 47, 287–297.
[203] Roos, J.A.; Korf, S.J.; Veehof, R.H.J.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. An
Investigation of the Comparative Reactivities of Ethane and Ethylene in the
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
508 S. Arndt et al.
Presence of Oxygen over Li/MgO and Ca/Sm2O3 Catalysts in Relation to the
Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Catal. Today 1989, 4, 441–452.
[204] Nelson, P.F.; Lukey, C.A.; Cant, N.W. Measurements of Kinetic Isotope Effects
and Hydrogen/Deuterium Distributions over Methane Oxidative Coupling
Catalysts. J. Catal. 1989, 120, 216–230.
[205] Cant, N.W.; Lukey, C.A.; Nelson, P.F. Oxygen Isotope Transfer Rates during the
Oxidative Coupling of Methane over a Li/MgO Catalyst. J. Catal. 1990, 124,
336–348.
[206] Mims, C.A.; Mauti, R.; Dean, A.M.; Rose, K.D. Radical Chemistry in Methane
Oxidative Coupling: Tracing of Ethylene Secondary Reactions with Computer
Models and Isotopes. J. Phys. Chem. 1994, 98, 13357–13372.
[207] Shi, C.L.; Rosynek, M.P.; Lunsford, J.H. Origin of Carbon Oxides during the
Oxidative Coupling of Methane. J. Phys. Chem. 1994, 98, 8371–8376.
[208] Hargreaves, J.S.J.; Hutchings, G.J.; Joyner, R.W. Hydrogen Production in
Methane Coupling Over Magnesium Oxide. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1991, 61,
155–159.
[209] Swaan, H.M.; Toebes, A.; Seshan, K.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. The Kinetic
and Mechanistic Aspects of the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane over
Li/Na/MgO Catalysts. Catal. Today 1992, 13, 201–208.
[210] Wang, J.X.; Lunsford, J.H. Characterization of [Li+O−] Centers in Lithium-Doped
Magnesium Oxide Catalysts. J. Phys. Chem. 1986, 90, 5883–5887.
[211] Wu, M.C.; Truong, C.M.; Goodman, D.W. Electron-Energy-Loss-Spectroscopy
Studies
of
Thermally
Generated
Defects
in
Pure
and
Lithium-Doped
MgO(100) Films on Mo(100). Phys. Rev. B 1992, 46, 12688–12694.
[212] Wu, M.C.; Truong, C.M.; Coulter, K.; Goodman, D.W. Role of F Centers in the
Oxidative Coupling of Methane to Ethane over Lithium-Promoted Magnesium
Oxide Catalysts. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1992, 114, 7565–7567.
[213] Wu, M.C.; Truong, C.M.; Coulter, K.; Goodman, D.W. Investigations of Active
Sites for Methane Activation in the Oxidative Coupling Reaction over Pure and
Li-Promoted MgO Catalysts. J. Catal. 1993, 140, 344–352.
[214] Wu, M.C.; Truong, C.M.; Coulter, K.; Goodman, D.W. Nature of Active Sites in
the Oxidative Coupling of Methane to Ethane over Li/MgO Catalysts. J. Vac. Sci.
Technol., A 1993, 11, 2174–2178.
[215] Coulter, K.; Goodman, D.W. Kinetic Studies of the Oxidative Dimerization of
Methane on Thin-Film MgO and Li/MgO. Catal. Lett. 1992, 16, 191–196.
[216] Coulter, K.; Szanyi, J.; Goodman, D.W. Pretreatment Effects on the Active Site
for Methane Activation in the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over MgO and
Li/MgO. Catal. Lett. 1995, 35, 23–32.
[217] Nelson, R.L.; Tench, A.J. Chemisorption and Surface Defects in Irradiated
Magnesium Oxide. J. Chem. Phys. 1964, 40, 2736–2737.
[218] Lin, C.H.; Campbell, K.D.; Wang, J.X.; Lunsford, J.H. Oxidative Dimerization of
Methane over Lanthanum Oxide. J. Phys. Chem. 1986, 90, 534–537.
[219] Aika, K.I.; Lunsford, J.H. Surface Reactions of Oxygen Ions. I. Dehydrogenation
of Alkanes by O−Ions on MgO. J. Phys. Chem. 1977, 81, 1393–1398.
[220] Iwamoto, M.; Lunsford, J.H. Surface Reactions of Oxygen Ions. 5. Oxidation of
Alkanes and Alkenes by O2−on Magnesium Oxide. J. Phys. Chem. 1980, 84,
3079–3084.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 509
[221] Garrone, E.; Zecchina, A.; Stone, F.S. Anionic Intermediates in Surface Processes
Leading to O2−Formation on Magnesium Oxide. J. Catal. 1980, 62, 396–400.
[222] Takita, Y.; Lunsford, J.H. Surface Reactions of Oxygen Ions. 3. Oxidation of
Alkanes by O−
3 Ion on Magnesium Oxide. J. Phys. Chem. 1979, 83, 683–688.
[223] Ito, T.; Tashiro, T.; Watanabe, T.; Toi, K.; Ikemoto, I. Activation of Methane on the
MgO Surface at Low Temperatures. Chem. Lett. 1987, 16, 1723–1726.
[224] Zhen, K.J.; Li, S.Z.; Bi, Y.L.; Yang, X.G.; Wei, Q. Characterization and Catalytic
Properties of MgO Prepared by Different Approaches. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal.
1995, 91, 691–698.
[225] Aika, K.I.; Karasuda, T. Study on the Active Site Structure of MgO Catalysts for
Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1996, 100, 397–406.
[226] Karasuda, T.; Aika, K.I. Isotopic Oxygen Exchange between Dioxygen and MgO
Catalysts for Oxidative Coupling of Methane. J. Catal. 1997, 171, 439–448.
[227] Karasuda, T.; Nagaoka, K.; Aika, K.I. Active Site Generation by Water for the
Activation of Methane over Non-Reducible Oxide Catalysts: A Study of MgO
System. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1998, 119, 283–288.
[228] McNamara, D.J.; Korf, S.J.; Seshan, K.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. The
Effect of Nb2O5 and ZrO2 Additions on the Behavior of Li/MgO and Li/Na/MgO
Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Can. J. Chem. Eng. 1991, 69,
883–890.
[229] Korf, S.J.; Roos, J.A.; Veltman, L.J.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. Effect of
Additives on Lithium Doped Magnesium Oxide Catalysts Used in the Oxidative
Coupling of Methane. Appl. Catal. 1989, 56, 119–135.
[230] Larkins, F.P.; Nordin, M.R. Physico-Chemical and Catalytic Properties of Doped
MgO Catalysts. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 81, 249–251.
[231] Larkins, F.P.; Nordin, M.R. The Effects of Transition Metal Oxides on the
Methane Oxidative Coupling Activity of Doped MgO Catalysts I. Zinc and
Manganese. J. Catal. 1991, 130, 147–160.
[232] Mariscal, R.; Soria, J.; Peña, M.A.; Fierro, J.L.G. Features of Li-Mn-MgO
Catalysts and Their Relevance in the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. J. Catal.
1994, 147, 535–543.
[233] Kanno, T.; Kobayashi, M. The Difference in the Modiﬁcation Effects of Li on Two
MgO Samples of Higher and Lower Mn Contents. J. Mater. Sci. Lett. 1997, 16,
126–127.
[234] Kanno, T.; Horiuchi, J.I.; Kobayashi, M. Discrimination of Lattice Oxygen Species
Involved in the Oxidative Coupling of Methane on a Mn Mixed-Mg Oxide. React.
Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2000, 70, 73–80.
[235] Zhang, J.J.; Yang, X.G.; Bi, Y.L.; Zhen, K.J. Role of Li Ion in Li-Mn-MgO Catalyst
for Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Catal. Today 1992, 13, 555–558.
[236] Ramasamy, S.; Mohamed, A.R.; Bhatia, S. Oxidative Coupling of Methane for the
Production of Ethylene over Li-Ni/MgO Catalys. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 2002,
75, 353–358.
[237] Hoogendam, G.C.; van Keulen, A.N.J.; Seshan, K.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H.
The Importance of Mixed Oxides in the Catalytic Behavior of Sn or Zr Doped
Li/MgO-Catalysts. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1993, 81, 187–192.
[238] Hoogendam, G.C.; Seshan, K.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. Oxidative Coupling
of Methane over Doped Li/MgO Catalysts. Catal. Today 1994, 21, 333–340.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
510 S. Arndt et al.
[239] Korf, S.J.; Roos, J.A.; Vreeman, J.A.; Derksen, J.W.H.C.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross,
J.R.H. A Study of the Kinetics of the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over a
Li/Sn/MgO Catalyst. Catal. Today 1990, 6, 417–426.
[240] van Keulen, A.N.J.; Hoogendam, G.C.; Seshan, K.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H.
The Role of Tin in Li/Sn/MgO Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane.
J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1992, 18, 1546–1547.
[241] Mallens, E.P.J.; Hoebink, J.H.B.J.; Marin, G.B. An Investigation of the Oxygen
Pathways in the Oxidative Coupling of Methane over MgO-Based Catalysts. J.
Catal. 1996, 160, 222–234.
[242] Nagaoka, K.; Karasuda, T.; Aika, K.I. The Effect of SnO2 Addition to Li/MgO
Catalysts for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. J. Catal. 1999, 181, 160–164.
[243] Dittmeyer, R.; Hofmann, H. Oxidative Coupling of Methane over a Ce/Li/MgO-
Catalyst. Kinetic Analysis and Reactor Simulation. Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994,
81, 241–247.
[244] Bartsch, S.; Falkowski, J.; Hoffmann, H. Catalyst Development for Oxidative
Methane Coupling. Catal. Today 1989, 4, 421–431.
[245] Bartsch, S.; Hoffmann, H. Investigations on a Ce/Li/MgO-Catalyst for the
Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Catal. Today 1990, 6, 527–534.
[246] Bartsch, S.; Pirkl, H.G.; Baumann, W.; Hoffmann, H. Kinetic Studies of the
Oxidative Coupling of Methane over a Ce/Li/MgO Catalyst. Stud. Surf. Sci.
Catal. 1991, 61, 147–154.
[247] Tiwari, K.K.; Roy, T.N.; Banerjee, S.; Ganguly, S.; Bhattacharyya, D.P. Oxidative
Coupling of Methane to C2-Hydrocarbons over Lithium-Cerium-Promoted MgO
and MgO-CaO Catalysts. J. Chem. Technol. Biotechnol. 1995, 63, 190–194.
[248] Ruckenstein, E.; Khan, A.Z. Synergistic Effect of Bialkali Metal Chlorides
Promoted Magnesia on Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Catal. Lett. 1993, 18,
27–35.
[249] Ruckenstein, E.; Khan, A.Z. Effects of Superbasic Catalysts Prepared by
Promoting MgO with Bialkali Metal Compounds on the Oxidative Coupling of
Methane. J. Catal. 1993, 141, 628–647.
[250] Swaan, H.M.; Toebes, A.; Seshan, K.; van Ommen, J.G.; Ross, J.R.H. The Effect
of Addition of a Third Component on the Behaviour of the Lithium Doped
Magnesium Catalysts for the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane. Catal. Today
1992, 13, 629–634.
[251] Fuchs, S.; Leveles, L.; Seshan, K.; Lefferts, L.; Lemonidou, A.; Lercher, J.A.
Oxidative Dehydrogenation and Cracking of Ethane and Propane over LiDyMg
Mixed Oxides. Top. Catal. 2001, 15, 169–174.
[252] Mallens, E.P.J.; Hoebink, J.H.B.J.; Marin, G.B. The Oxidative Coupling of
Methane over Tin Promoted Lithium Magnesium Oxide: A TAP Investigation.
Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 1994, 81, 205–210.
[253] Otsuka, K.; Liu, Q.; Hatano, M.; Morikawa, A. Synthesis of Ethylene by Partial
Oxidation of Methane over the Oxides of Transition Elements with LiCl. Chem.
Lett. 1986, 15, 903–906.
[254] Burch, R.; Squire, G.D.; Tsang, S.C. Role of Chlorine in Improving Selectivity in
the Oxidative Coupling of Methane to Ethylene. Appl. Catal. 1989, 46, 69–87.
[255] Burch, R.; Chalker, S.; Hibble, S.J. The Role of Chlorine in the Partial Oxidation
of Methane to Ethene on MgO Catalysts. Appl. Catal., A 1993, 96, 289–303.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 511
[256] Conway, S.J.; Lunsford, J.H. The Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane over
Chlorine-Promoted Lithium-Magnesium Oxide Catalysts. J. Catal. 1991, 131,
513–522.
[257] Hinson, P.G.; Clearﬁeld, A.; Lunsford, J.H. The Oxidative Coupling of Methane on
Chlorinated Lithium-Doped Magnesium Oxide. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun.
1991, 1430–1432.
[258] Lunsford, J.H.; Hinson, P.G.; Rosynek, M.P.; Shi, C.L.; Xu, M.T.; Yang, X.M. The
Effect of Chloride Ions on a Li+-MgO Catalyst for the Oxidative Coupling of
Methane. J. Catal. 1994, 147, 301–310.
[259] Lewis, D.W.; Catlow, C.R.A. A Computational Study of the Role of Chlorine in the
Partial Oxidation of Methane by MgO and Li/MgO. Top. Catal. 1994, 1, 111–121.
[260] Hattori, H. Heterogeneous Basic Catalysis. Chem. Rev. 1995, 95, 537–558.
[261] Coluccia, S.; Marchese, L.; Lavagnino, S.; Anpo, M. Hydroxyls on the Surface of
MgO Powders. Spectrochim. Acta, Part A 1987, 43, 1573–1576.
[262] Praliaud, H.; Coluccia, S.; Deane, A.M.; Tench, A.J. Oxidising Properties of MgO
Formed by Thermal Decomposition of Mg(OH)2. Chem. Phys. Lett. 1979, 66,
44–47.
[263] Chizallet, C.; Costentin, G.; Lauron-Pernot, H.; Krafft, J.M.; Che, M.; J.; Delbecq,
F.; Sautet, P. Assignment of Photoluminescence Spectra of MgO Powders: TD-
DFT Cluster Calculations Combined to Experiments. Part I: Structure Effects on
Dehydroxylated Surfaces. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 16629–16637.
[264] Chizallet, C.; Costentin, G.; Lauron-Pernot, H.; Krafft, J.M.; Che, M.; Delbecq, F.;
Sautet, P. Assignment of Photoluminescence Spectra of MgO Powders: TD-DFT
Cluster Calculations Combined to Experiments. Part II. Hydroxylation Effects.
J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 19710–19717.
[265] Che, M.; Tench, A.J. Characterization and Reactivity of Mononuclear Oxygen
Species on Oxide Surfaces. Vol 31. Advances in Catalysis, Academic Press: New
York, 1982, pp. 77–133.
[266] Mehandru, S.P.; Anderson, A.B.; Brazdil, J.F. Methyl Radical Formation over
Lithium-Doped Magnesium Oxide. Molecular Orbital Theory. J. Am. Chem. Soc.
1988, 110, 1715–1719.
[267] Catlow,
C.R.A.;
French,
S.A.;
Sokol,
A.A.;
Thomas,
J.M.
Computational
Approaches to the Determination of Active Site Structures and Reaction
Mechanisms in Heterogeneous Catalysts. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 2005, 363,
913–936.
[268] Orlando, R.; Corà, F.; Millini, R.; Perego, G.; Dovesi, R. Hydrogen Abstraction
from Methane by Li Doped MgO: A Periodic Quantum Mechanical Study. J.
Chem. Phys. 1996, 105, 8937–8943.
[269] Dash, L.K.; Gillan, M.J. Assessment of Competing Mechanisms of the Abstraction
of Hydrogen from CH4 on Li/MgO(001). Surf. Sci. 2004, 549, 217–226.
[270] Zobel, N.; Behrendt, F. Activation Energy for Hydrogen Abstraction from
Methane over Li-Doped MgO: A Density Functional Theory Study. J. Chem. Phys.
2006, 125, 074715.
[271] Yang, Z.X.; Liu, G.; Wu, R.Q. Effects of Li impurities on MgO(001). Phys. Rev. B
2002, 65, 235432.
[272] Morgan, B.J.; Scanlon, D.O.; Watson, G.W. The Use of the “+U” Correction in
Describing Defect States at Metal Oxide Surfaces: Oxygen Vacancies on CeO2
and TiO2, and Li-doping of MgO. e-J. Surf. Sci. Nanotechnol. 2009, 7, 389–394.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
512 S. Arndt et al.
[273] Scanlon, D.O.; Walsh, A.; Morgan, B.J.; Watson, G.W. Competing Defect
Mechanisms and Hydrogen Adsorption on Li-Doped MgO Low Index Surfaces:
A DFT+U Study. e-J. Surf. Sci. Nanotechnol. 2009, 7, 395–404.
[274] Lintuluoto, M.; Nakamura, Y. Theoretical Study on the Adsorption of Methane on
MgO and Li-Doped MgO Surfaces. J. Mol. Struct. Theochem 2004, 674, 207–212.
[275] Zuo, J.; Pandey, R.; Kunz, A.B. Embedded-Cluster Study of the Lithium Trapped-
Hole Center in Magnesium Oxide. Phys. Rev. B 1991, 44, 7187–7191.
[276] Ackermann, L.; Gale, J.D.; Catlow, C.R.A. Interaction of Methane with a [Li]0
Center on MgO(100): HF, Post-HF, and DFT Cluster Model Studies. J. Phys.
Chem. B 1997, 101, 10028–10034.
[277] Børve, K.J.; Pettersson, L.G.M. Hydrogen Abstraction from Methane on a
Magnesia (001) Surface. J. Phys. Chem. 1991, 95, 7401–7405.
[278] Børve, K.J. Methane Dissociation on a Nonplanar MgO(001) Surface. Theoretical
Modeling of Surface Defects. J. Chem. Phys. 1991, 95, 4626–4631.
[279] Zhanpeisov,
N.U.;
Baerns,
M.
Cluster
Quantum-Chemical
Study
of
the
Chemisorption of Methane on a Lithium-Promoted Magnesium Oxide Doped by
Zinc Oxide. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem 1995, 99, 139–142.
[280] Zhanpeisov,
N.U.;
Staemmler,
V.;
Baerns,
M.
A
Quantum-Chemical
MINDO/3 Study of Methane and Oxygen Interactions with a Pure and a
Modiﬁed Calcium Oxide Surface. J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem 1995, 101, 51–60.
[281] Birkenheuer, U.; Corà, F.; Pisani, C.; Scorza, E.; Perego, G. Embedded-Cluster
Study of Core-Level Binding Energies of Magnesium and Alkali Impurities at
the Surface of MgO. Surf. Sci. 1997, 373, 393–408.
[282] Nolan, M.; Watson, G.W. The Electronic Structure of Alkali Doped Alkaline Earth
Metal Oxides: Li Doping of MgO Studied with DFT-GGA and GGA + U. Surf. Sci.
2005, 586, 25–37.
[283] Scanlon, D.O.; Walsh, A.; Morgan, B.J.; Nolan, M.; Fearon, J.; Watson, G.W.
Surface Sensitivity in Lithium-Doping of MgO: A Density Functional Theory
Study with Correction for On-Site Coulomb Interactions. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007,
111, 7971–7979.
[284] Mori-Sánchez, P.; Cohen, A.J.; Yang, W.T. Localization and Delocalization Errors
in Density Functional Theory and Implications for Band-Gap Prediction. Phys.
Rev. Lett. 2008, 100, 146401.
[285] Lichanot, A.; Larrieu, C.; Orlando, R.; Dovesi, R. Lithium Trapped-Hole Centre
in Magnesium Oxide. An Ab Initio Supercell Study. J. Phys. Chem. Solids 1998,
59, 7–12.
[286] Lichanot, A.; Larrieu, C.; Zicovich-Wilson, C.; Roetti, C.; Orlando, R.; Dovesi, R.
Trapped-Hole Centres Containing Lithium and Sodium in MgO, CaO and SrO.
An Ab Initio Supercell Study. J. Phys. Chem. Solids 1998, 59, 1119–1124.
[287] Dovesi, R.; Orlando, R.; Roetti, R.; Pisani, C.; Saunders, V.R. The Periodic
Hartree-Fock Method and Its Implementation in the Crystal Code. Phys. Status
Solidi B 2000, 217, 63–88.
[288] Reuter, K.; Schefﬂer, M. Composition, Structure, and Stability of RuO2(110) as a
Function of Oxygen Pressure. Phys. Rev. B 2001, 65, 035406.
[289] Weinert, C.M.; Schefﬂer, M. Chalcogen and Vacancy Pairs in Silicon: Electronic
Structure and Stabilities. In Defects in Semiconductors, Vol. 10–12, Bardeleben,
H.J., Ed.; Trans Tech Publications: Aedermannsdorf, 1986, pp. 25–30.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
Li/MgO-Based Catalysts in the OCM 513
[290] Schefﬂer, M.; Dabrowski, J. Parameter-Free Calculations of Total Energies,
Interatomic Forces and Vibrational Entropies of Defects in Semiconductors.
Philos. Mag. A 1988, 58, 107–121.
[291] Reuter, K.; Stampﬂ, C.; Schefﬂer, M. Ab Initio Atomistic Thermodynamics and
Statistical Mechanics of Surface Properties and Functions. In Vol. 1, Handbook
of Materials Modeling; Springer: Berlin Heidelberg, 2005, pp. 149–194.
[292] Schefﬂer, M.; Reuter, K. First-Principles Kinetic Monte Carlo Simulations for
Heterogeneous Catalysis: Application to the CO Oxidation at RuO2(110). Phys.
Rev. B 2006, 73, 045433.
[293] Watson, G. Atomistic and Electronic Structure Calculation of Defects at the
Surfaces of Oxides. Radiat. Eff. Defects Solids 2002, 157, 773–781.
[294] Zhidomirov, G.M.; Zhanpeisov, N.U. Active Centres of Magnesium Oxide Surface
and Calculations of Dissociative Chemisorption of Methane on Modiﬁed MgO.
Catal. Today 1992, 13, 517–522.
[295] Orlando, R.; Millini, R.; Perego, G.; Dovesi, R. Catalytic Properties of F-Centres
at the Magnesium Oxide Surface: Hydrogen Abstraction from Methane. J. Mol.
Catal. A: Chem 1997, 119, 253–262.
[296] Pacchioni, G.; Ferrari, A.M. Surface Reactivity of MgO Oxygen Vacancies. Catal.
Today 1999, 50, 533–540.
[297] Ahari, J.S.; Ahmadi, R.; Mikami, H.; Inazu, K.; Zarrinpashne, S.; Suzuki, S.; Aika,
K.I. Application of a Simple Kinetic Model for the Oxidative Coupling of Methane
to the Design of Effective Catalysts. Catal. Today, 2009, 145, 45–54.
[298] Geerts,
J.W.M.H.;
Chen,
Q.;
van
Kasteren,
J.M.N.;
van
der
Wiele,
K.
Thermodynamics and
Kinetic Modeling
of
the Homogeneous
Gas
Phase
Reactions of the Oxidative Coupling of Methane. Catal. Today 1990, 6, 519–526.
[299] Labinger, J.A.; Ott, K.C. Mechanistic Studies on the Oxidative Coupling of
Methane. J. Phys. Chem. 1987, 91, 2682–2684.
[300] Mackie, J.C. Partial Oxidation of Methane: The Role of the Gas Phase Reactions.
Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 1991, 33, 169–240.
[301] Slagle, I.R.; Gutman, D. Kinetics of Polyatomic Free Radicals Produced by Laser
Photolysis. 5. Study of the Equilibrium CH3 + O2 ⇌CH3O2 between 421 and
538 ◦C. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1985, 107, 5342–5347.
[302] Zanthoff, H.; Baerns, M. Oxidative Coupling of Methane in the Gas Phase.
Kinetic Simulation and Experimental Veriﬁcation. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1990,
29, 2–10.
[303] Tsang, W. Chemical Kinetic Data Base for Combustion Chemistry. Part 3.
Propane. J. Phys. Chem. Ref. Data 1988, 17, 887–951.
[304] Tsang, W.; Hampson, R.F. Chemical Kinetic Data Base for Combustion
Chemistry. Part 1. Methane and Related Compounds. J. Phys. Chem. Ref. Data
1986, 15, 1087–1279.
[305] Lunsford, J.H. The Catalytic Conversion of Methane to Higher Hydrocarbons.
Catal. Today 1990, 6, 235–259.
[306] Polyakov,
M.V.;
Stadnik,
P.M.;
Neimark,
I.E.
Hetrogeneous-Homogeneous
Catalysis of CH4 + O2 Mixtures. Zh. Fiz. Khim. 1936, 8, 584–586.
[307] Fang, T.; Yeh, C.T. Interactions of Methane with ThO2/SiO2 Surface at 1073 K. J.
Catal. 1981, 69, 227–229.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
514 S. Arndt et al.
[308] Cant, N.W.; Kennedy, E.M.; Nelson, P.F. Magnitude and Origin of the Deuterium
Kinetic Isotope Effect during Methane Coupling and Related Reactions over
Lithium/Magnesium Oxide Catalysts. J. Phys. Chem. 1993, 97, 1445–1450.
[309] Burch, R.; Tsang, S.C.; Mirodatos, C.; Sanchez M., J.G. Kinetic Isotope Effects in
Methane Coupling on a Reducible Oxide Catalyst. Catal. Lett. 1990, 7, 423–430.
[310] Otsuka, K.; Inaida, M.; Wada, Y.; Komatsu, T.; Morikawa, A. Isotopic Studies
on Oxidative Methane Coupling over Samarium Oxide. Chem. Lett. 1989, 18,
1531–1534.
[311] Aparicio, L.M.; Rossini, S.A.; Sanﬁlippo, D.G.; Rekoske, J.E.; Treviño, A.A.;
Dumesic, J.A. Microkinetic Analysis of Methane Dimerization Reaction. Ind. Eng.
Chem. Res. 1991, 39, 2114–2123.
[312] Shi, C.; Hatano, M.; Lunsford, J.H. A Kinetic Model for the Oxidative Coupling of
Methane over Li+/MgO Catalysts. Catal. Today 1992, 13, 191–199.
[313] Tjatjopoulos, G.J.; Vasalos, I.A. A Mechanistic Kinetic Model for Oxidative
Coupling of Methane over Li/MgO Catalysts. Catal. Today 1992, 13, 361–370.
[314] Tung, W.Y.; Lobban, L.L. Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Lithium/Magnesia:
Kinetics and Mechanisms. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1992, 31, 1621–1625.
[315] Zanthoff, H.; Zhang, Z.; Gryzbek, T.; Lehmann, L.; Baerns, M. Catalysis and
Kinetics of the Oxidative Methane Coupling. Catal. Today 1992, 13, 469–480.
[316] Sun, J.J.; Thybaut, J.W.; Marin, G.B. Microkinetics of Methane Oxidative
Coupling. Catal. Today 2008, 137, 90–102.
[317] Couwenberg, P.M.; Chen, Q.; Marin, G.B. Kinetics of a Gas-Phase Chain Reaction
Catalyzed by a Solid: The Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Li/MgO-Based
Catalysts. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1996, 35, 3999–4011.
[318] Couwenberg, P.M.; Chen, Q.; Marin, G.B. Irreducible Mass-Transport Limitations
during a Heterogeneously Catalyzed Gas-Phase Chain Reaction: Oxidative
Coupling of Methane. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1996, 35, 415–421.
[319] Hoebink, J.H.B.J.; Couwenberg, P.M.; Marin, G.B. Fixed Bed Reactor Design
for Gas Phase Chain Reactions Catalysed by Solids: The Oxidative Coupling of
Methane. Chem. Eng. Sci. 1994, 49, 5453–5463.
[320] DeBoy, J.M.; Hicks, R.F. The Oxidative Coupling of Methane over Alkali, Alkaline
Earth, and Rare Earth Oxides. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1988, 27, 1577–1582.
[321] Sinev, M.Y.; Fattakhova, Z.T.; Lomonosov, V.I.; Gordienko, Y.A. Kinetics of
Oxidative Coupling of Methane: Bridging the Gap between Comprehension and
Description. J. Nat. Gas Chem. 2009, 18, 273–287.
[322] Arutyunov, V.S.; Rudakov, V.M.; Savchenko, V.I.; Sheverdenkin, E.V. Relative
Conversion
of
Lower
Alkanes
in
Their
Simultaneous
Partial
Gas-Phase
Oxidation. Theor. Found. Chem. Eng. 2005, 39, 487–492.
[323] Sinev, M.; Arutyunov, V.; Romanets A. Kinetic Models of C1-C4 Alkane Oxidation
as Applied to Processing of Hydrocarbon Gases: Principles, Approaches and
Developments. In Advances in Chemical Engineering, Vol. 32, Academic Press,
2007, pp. 167–258.
[324] Miller, J.A.; Klippenstein, S.J. The Reaction between Ethyl and Molecular
Oxygen II: Further Analysis. Int. J. Chem. Kinet. 2001, 33, 654–668.
[325] Slagle, I.R.; Ratajczak, E.; Gutman, D. Study of the Thermochemistry of the CH3
+ O2 ⇔C2H5O2 and t-C4H9 + O2 ⇔t-C4H9O2 Reactions and of the Trend in the
Alkylperoxy Bond Strengths. J. Phys. Chem. 1986, 90, 402–407.
Downloaded by [University of Wyoming Libraries] at 01:49 27 September 2013 
