This article was downloaded by: [171.67.34.205]
On: 20 March 2013, At: 08:11
Publisher: Taylor & Francis
Informa Ltd Registered in England and Wales Registered Number: 1072954 Registered
office: Mortimer House, 37-41 Mortimer Street, London W1T 3JH, UK
Catalysis Reviews: Science and
Engineering
Publication details, including instructions for authors and
subscription information:
http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/lctr20
Key Aspects of Catalyst Design for the
Selective Oxidation of Paraffins
STEFANIA ALBONETTI a , FABRIZIO CAVANI a & FERRUCCIO TRIFIRÒ a
a Università degli Studi di Bologna, Dipartimento di Chimica
Industriale e dei Materiali, Viale Risorgimento 4, 40136, Bologna,
Italy
Version of record first published: 16 Aug 2006.
To cite this article: STEFANIA ALBONETTI , FABRIZIO CAVANI & FERRUCCIO TRIFIRÒ (1996): Key
Aspects of Catalyst Design for the Selective Oxidation of Paraffins, Catalysis Reviews: Science and
Engineering, 38:4, 413-438
To link to this article:  http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01614949608006463
PLEASE SCROLL DOWN FOR ARTICLE
Full terms and conditions of use: http://www.tandfonline.com/page/terms-and-conditions
This article may be used for research, teaching, and private study purposes. Any
substantial or systematic reproduction, redistribution, reselling, loan, sub-licensing,
systematic supply, or distribution in any form to anyone is expressly forbidden.
The publisher does not give any warranty express or implied or make any representation
that the contents will be complete or accurate or up to date. The accuracy of any
instructions, formulae, and drug doses should be independently verified with primary
sources. The publisher shall not be liable for any loss, actions, claims, proceedings,
demand, or costs or damages whatsoever or howsoever caused arising directly or
indirectly in connection with or arising out of the use of this material.
Key Aspects of Catalyst 
Design for the Selective 
Oxidation of Paraffins 
STEFANIA ALBONETTI, FABRIZIO C
A
V
'
I
,
 
and 
FERRUCCIO TRIFIRO* 
Universitl degli Studi di Bologna 
Dipartimento di Chimica Industriale e dei Materiali 
Viale Risorgimento 4 
40136 Bologna, Italy 
I. 
11. 
111. 
IV. 
V. 
VI 
. 
VII. 
VIII. 
INTRODUCTION .......................................... 
414 
ROLE OF VANADIUM AS THE PREFERRED ELEMENT IN 
CATALYSTS FOR SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF ALKANES . 
. 
. . 
ROLE OF THE ISOLATION OF VANADIUM IONS IN A 
QUASI-INERT MATRIX . . . 
. 
. . . . . . . 
. . 
. . 
. . 
. . 
. . 
. . 
. . . . 
. . . 
. 
. 
. . . . 
419 
ROLE OF THE STABILITY OF THE PRODUCT . 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. . 
. . 
. 
424 
ROLE OF MULTIFUNCTIONALITY . 
. . 
. . . . 
. . 
. 
. 
. . 
. . 
. . 
. . 
. . 
. 
. . 
. 
426 
A. 
Multifunctionality as a Criterion in Catalyst Design . 
. 
. . . 
. . 
. . 
426 
B. 
Multifunctionality as a Tool to Explain the Reaction 
Mechanism ............................................ 
428 
C. 
Inadequacy of Multifunctionality Alone . 
. 
. 
. . . . 
. . 
. 
. 
. 
. . 
. . . . 
. 
428 
415 
ROLE OF THE TYPE OF C-H BOND ACTIVATION . 
. . 
. 
. . 
. 
. 
. . 
432 
ROLE OF ACIDITY AND BASICITY . 
. . . . 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. . . 
. 
. 
. . 
. 
. 
433 
CONCLUSIONS ........................................... 
434 
REFERENCES ............................................. 
435 
*To whom correspondence should be sent. 
413 
Copyright 0 1996 by Marcel Dekker, Inc. 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
414 
ALBONETTI, CAVANI, AND 
TRIFIRO 
ABSTRACT 
This review examines some aspects in the development of heterogeneous 
catalysts for the oxyfunctionalization of light paraffins. Particular attention is 
devoted to the reaction of paraffin oxydehydrogenation to olefins and of 
n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride. Most catalyst compositions are based 
on vanadium oxide as the main component, and the peculiar properties of 
this element with respect to the catalytic performance are discussed. These 
properties are also examined in light of the stability of the product of partial 
oxidation towards consecutive unselective oxidation reactions, and with re- 
spect to the mechanism of paraffin activation. 
Key Words: Mechanism of paraffin oxidation; Selective oxidation of paraffins; 
Vanadium oxide based heterogeneous catalysts. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Catalytic oxidation continues to be a very important technology in mod- 
ern chemical industry. One of the most important applications of selective 
oxidation catalysts is the functionalization of alkenes and aromatics because 
of the ease and economy with which they can be obtained from petroleum. 
In the future, however, the petrochemical industry will probably move to the 
direct use of alkanes, which are even more economical, readily available raw 
materials, with low toxicity as compared to aromatics. 
Moreover, the demand for olefins is increasing, and the existing capacity 
(principally from steam cracking of naphtha and from fluid catalytic cracking 
(FCC) in oil refining) may well become insufficient to meet this demand. 
Consequently, the increased future demand for olefins is likely to be satisfied 
mainly by direct production of individual olefins in dedicated plants. Also in 
this case, alkanes can be utilized as feedstocks in both the dehydrogenation 
and the oxidative dehydrogenation processes. In particular, the latter process 
has the potential to overcome the thermodynamic limitations of pure dehy- 
drogenation, operating at low temperature with an exothermic reaction and 
avoiding frequent catalyst regeneration. The loss of valuable coproduced hy- 
drogen, a drawback of oxidative dehydrogenation, might be economically 
compensated for by the possibility of integration of the process with processes 
which make direct use of the synthesized olefin. 
The best-known oxidation of a lower alkane is the selective oxidation 
of n-butane to maleic anhydride. This process is the only selective gas-phase 
alkane oxidation that has been commercialized. The apparent paradox of cat- 
alytic chemistry, that higher yield and selectivity to maleic anhydride are 
obtained in the oxidation of n-butane than in the oxidation of butenes, opens 
up the possibility that-with 
the choice of a suitable catalyst, experimental 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
415 
conditions, and reactor technologies-it 
may be possible to obtain a better 
performance in the selective oxidation of other alkanes rather than in that of 
the relative olefins. 
Over the past 15 years many examples of catalysts active in the selective 
oxidation and dehydrogenation of paraffins have been reported in patents and 
in scientific publications. However, low yields in the final product are fre- 
quently observed and, in almost all cases, the productivity of these processes 
is far from values of industrial interest. 
In order to close this still large gap between industrial demand and the 
present product yields obtained, some fundamental questions must be 
answered: 
How is it possible to stop the oxidation at the desired compound 
(avoiding its total oxidation) without operating at very low contact 
time, when the product is more reactive than the paraffin itself? 
Is the selectivity also related to the activation mechanism? 
Is the selectivity also related to the reaction pattern? 
The present work is an attempt to analyze the more recent studies on 
selective oxidation of paraffins, noting the key aspects of the design of catalysts 
active and selective for these' types of reactions. Only the selective oxidation 
of G-C, paraffins is examined in this review. The oxidation of methane is not 
treated here because, due to its low reactivity, the catalytic aspects of C, oxi- 
dation are quite different from other alkanes; however, some generalizations 
put forward in this article are also valid for the selective oxidation of methane. 
The main topics singled out and examined in this paper are the 
following: 
Role of vanadium as the preferred element 
Role of the isolation of oxidation sites in an inert matrix 
Role of the stability of the product 
Role of the multifunctionality of the catalyst 
Role of nondesorption of the intermediates 
Role of the relative rate of dehydrogenation and oxygen insertion 
reactions 
Role of the type of C-H bond activation 
Role of acidity and basicity of the catalyst 
1
1
.
 
ROLE OF V'ANADIUM AS THE PREFERRED ELEMENT IN 
CATALYSTS FOR SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF ALKANES 
Vanadium and molybdenum oxides are the main elements present in 
catalysts used for selective oxidation of alkanes; between the two the most 
preferred element is vanadium. In fact, this metal is present in almost all the 
catalysts for selective oxidation of alkanes, which give the highest productiv- 
ity and the highest yield at the lowest temperature. Table 1 
shows the best 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
TABLE 1 
Vanadium Oxide Based Catalysts Which Give a Higher Yield and/or Productivity Utilizing 
Alkanes as Feedstocks 
Catalyst 
Temperature range, 
Reaction 
composition 
"C 
Ref. 
Ethane -.+ ethylene 
Ethane + 
acetic acid 
Propane + 
propylene 
Propane - 
acrolein 
Propane + 
acrylic acid 
Propane - 
acrylonitrile 
n-Butane + 
butadiene 
n-Butane + 
butadiene 
n-Butane + 
maleic anhydride 
Isobutane - 
methacrylic acid 
Isobutane + 
t-butylalcohol 
Isobutane - 
methacrylonitrile 
n-Pentane + 
phthalic anhydride 
"Sn/Li/Mg/O/Cl 
(yield, [2]). 
bNi/h40/0 
(productivity, at 550°C [6]). 
V/Al/O(prod)" 
VPrniIO 
V silicalite (yield)b 
V/Ag/Bi/MolO 
VPiTelO 
MofVfMNb/O 
V/Mg/O (prod.) 
Ni/V/Sb/O (yield) 
VP/O 
vP/Mo/cu/cs/o 
v/Mo/P/o 
Bi/Mo/Nb/O 
VP/O 
450-550 
300-400 
450-550 
480-530 
380-430 
400-450 
500 
- 
600 
550-650 
350-420 
300-400 
80-150 
500-550 
330-420 
1 
3 
4, 5 
7 
8 
9 
12 
13 
14 
15 
10,11 
g 
3 
W 
0 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
417 
catalytic formulation (i.e., the catalyst which gives the highest yield and/or 
productivity [kilograms of product/(kilogram of catalyst X hour)] for each 
type of reaction examined. 
Only in the case of ethane oxydehydrogenation is the catalyst with the 
highest yield not a vanadium oxide based catalyst, and in addition this catalyst 
does not contain any transition elements. In fact, some of the vanadium-free 
catalysts developed for the reaction of methane coupling, based on Li/Mg/O 
mixed oxides [19,20], are also active in this reaction. In this catalytic system 
the mechanism does not involve a classical redox-type cycle. No furnishing 
of bulk oxygen occurs, and the catalyst only is involved in C-H 
heterolitic 
scission with radical formation, analogous to that occurring with methane. 
However, alumina-supported vanadium pentoxide has been shown to be ac- 
tive in oxydehydrogenation of ethane, and this type of catalyst has the highest 
productivity for this reaction. This system can activate ethane at a temperature 
100°C lower than the other catalysts, and the entire reaction is heterogeneous; 
hence it is controlled by the catalyst. Compared in Figs. 1 
and 2 are the 
performances achieved in the reaction of propane oxidehydrogenation over 
. CelOlF 
................. 
.
.
 rn 
.... aVIMgI0 
8 NdlVIQ 
40 t 
yiell 
.3ow 
0' 
I 
1 
1 
I 
0 
20 
40 
60 
80 
100 
conversion of propane, mol % 
FIG. 1. Best yields to propylene in oxydehydrogenation of propane reported 
in the literature, for the various catalysts. 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
411) 
ALBONETTI, CAVANI, AND TRIFIRb 
0.6 
0.4 
different catalysts. Vanadium oxide is a component in most of the catalytic 
systems studied. 
In order to show the role of vanadium in the catalytic systems reported 
in Table 1, 
Table 2 reports the main compositions of catalysts giving the same 
products as indicated in Table 1 
but starting from the olefin, and Table 3 
reports the catalysts active and selective in the production of anhydrides and 
acids. It is shown that molybdenum oxide is a fundamental component in 
catalyst formulations for the oxidation of olefins. Molybdenum oxide also is 
- 
. 
propylene productivity, kg/kg(cat) h 
Oa8 3 
NilMolO 
CelOl 
Fm 
VINblO 
0.2 
VlMglO 
w 
Sn~fSblOBlp10 
VIzdlO 
V/05mVAP05 
VlAll 
-_ 
WAPJO 
Y-silicalite~Vlsepiolite 
350 
450 
550 
650 
temperature, "C 
FIG. 2. Propylene productivity in oxydehydrogenation of propane reported 
in the literature, for the various catalysts. 
TABLE 2 
Processes Listed in Table 1 
Which Use Olefins as Feedstocks 
Reaction 
Temperature range, 
Catalyst 
"C 
Propylene - 
acrolein 
Bi/Mo(Sb)-based oxides 
300-350 
Propylene - 
acrylonitrile 
Bi/Mo(Sb)-based oxides 
400 - 
450 
Isobutene - 
methacrolein 
Bi/Mo(Sb)-based oxides 
300-400 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
419 
TABLE 3 
Processes for the Production of Acids and Anhydrides 
Reaction 
Temperature range, 
Catalyst 
"C 
Acrolein - 
acrylic acid 
V/Mo-based oxides 
250-280 
Methacrolein - 
methacrylic acid 
V/Mo heteropolyacids 
280-320 
Benzene - 
maleic anhydride 
V/Mo oxides 
350-400 
o-Xylene - 
phthalic anhydride 
V/Ti oxides 
380-420 
Butenes - 
maleic anhydride 
V/Mo oxides 
360-440 
a component in some systems active in the oxidation of paraffins (i.e., in 
polyoxomolybdates in the oxidation of propane to acrylic acid and of iso- 
butane to methacrolein and methacrylic acid). The superior performance of 
vanadium oxide based systems arises from its specific activity in the C-H 
bond activation in paraffins, and in some cases from its specificity in oxygen 
insertion onto the activated molecule. Moreover, in all the catalytic systems 
which contain molybdenum oxide and which are active in the oxidation of 
an alkane, the addition of vanadium further improves the catalytic perfor- 
mance. This is the case, for instance, of V/Mo/Nb/O mixed oxides for the 
low-temperature oxidation of ethane to acetic acid [21-231 and of Keggin- 
type V-heteropolyoxomolybdates in the oxidation of propane and isobutane 
[24]. The higher activity achieved with vanadium additions allows the oper- 
ation to be carried out at lower temperatures than in the case of molybdenum- 
based systems, and hence allows operation in conditions at which the oxy- 
genated compound produced is not burnt. 
A comparison of the catalyst formulations reported in Tables 1-3 makes 
it possible to draw a first conclusion on the role of vanadium ions in the 
catalytic systems. 
Statement 1: Vanadium is likely involved in (i) the first step of the 
reaction (activation of alkane, i.e., H abstraction) and (ii) the final trans- 
formation of intermediates (i.e., aldehydes) to anhydrides and acids. 
111. ROLE OF THE ISOLATION OF VANADIUM IONS IN A 
QUASI-INERT 
MATRIX 
In order to avoid the reaction of overoxidation of the primary product 
of alkane activation, it is necessary that the adsorbed paraffin finds very few 
active sites for oxidation close to the adsorption sites [25] or that the desired 
product of oxidation can desorb very quickly from the catalyst surface. These 
features can be realized by designing catalysts in which the oxidation sites, 
usually vanadium ions, are isolated in an inert matrix. Vanadium pentoxide, 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
420 
ALBONETTI, CAVANI, AND TRIFIRO 
in fact, is not a good catalytic system for the selective oxidation of paraffins, 
but spreading the oxide on a quasi-inert matrix such as a support, in MgO, 
in P205, 
or in SnO,, with the formation of centers with peculiar chemical- 
physical features and reactivity, leads to selective catalytic systems (Table 4). 
Kung and coworkers [34,35] have studied the oxidation of n-butane over 
alumina- and silica-supported vanadium pentoxide catalysts with different 
amounts of vanadium on the supports. It was reported that for a vanadia 
content lower than a monolayer the selectivity to olefins was high, while 
higher amounts of vanadia caused a decrease in the selectivity and a consid- 
erable increase in the activity. The differences in the specific reactivity of 
these catalysts with different vanadia loadings are explained by hypothesizing, 
in the submonolayer samples, the formation of a well-dispersed phase spread 
over the support, less active than networks of vanadia but more selective 
toward the formation of olefins. 
Isolation of oxidizing sites also has been realized by dispersion of va- 
nadium ions inside a matrix such as zeolites or zeoliticlike compounds. Al- 
though the exact localization of vanadium in vanadium silicalite [4,36], as 
well as the existence of more than one type of vanadium species (i.e., the 
presence of extraframework vanadium) is still under debate, these systems 
were found to be very selective in the oxydehydrogenation of propane to 
propylene. An increase in vanadium content in the silicalite framework de- 
creased the selectivity to propylene and increased the COX 
formation and the 
activity, but the specific rate per vanadium atom was highest at the lowest 
vanadium content. Ultraviolet (UV)-visible diffuse reflectance spectra and 
V-NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance) solid-state spectra showed that, at low 
vanadium contents, tetrahedral V” species are formed and stabilized by in- 
teraction with the zeolite framework while, at high vanadium contents, ad- 
ditional species, such as octahedral VO”, formed. The stabilization of tet- 
rahedral V5’ 
species in a well-defined environment, through V-0-Si bonds, 
51 
TABLE 4 
Vanadium Oxide Containing Catalysts, Active in 
Oxidation Reaction 
Catalyst 
Ref. 
V5+ 
in silicalite 
V” in Mg vanadates 
V5’ on the surface of (VO),P,O, 
V
5
’
,
 
solid solution in Nb205 
V5+ 
in sepiolite 
V” in VAPO-5 
V5+ 
in heteropolycompounds 
V4+, 
solid solution in SnO, 
V5+ 
on silica 
4 
26 
27 
23 
28 
29 
30 
31, 32 
33 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
421 
limits the nonselective adsorption of propane or propylene on the metal and 
also limits oxygen insertion in the activated organic molecule. A tentative 
model of the local coordination environment of V5+ 
sites in the silicalite 
structure is shown in Fig. 3 [4,36]. 
The VAPO-5 catalysts prepared by Lopez-Nieto and coworkers [29] are 
active and selective for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Depending 
on the vanadium content and on the method of preparation, different vana- 
dium species and different catalytic behaviors were observed. The samples 
containing V5+ 
species with a tetrahedral coordination had the highest yield 
in propylene. Thus, the vanadium species isolated and with low coordination, 
mainly tetrahedral V”, were proposed to be the active and selective sites for 
the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. 
In mixed oxides, the presence of an excess of nontransition element 
seems to be necessary to obtain high selectivity (Table 5). For example, in 
the case of V/P/O mixed oxides, the optimal catalyst composition has a slight 
excess of phosphorus with respect to the stoichiometric value of the precursor 
and there is general agreement that the high P/V ratio helps in avoiding the 
oxidation of V4+ 
in (VO),P,O, [27]. Single-crystal x-ray diffraction studies 
of vanadyl pyrophosphate [39] indicate a model of surface topology that 
provides a means for isolation of the active sites in this mixed oxide. In this 
model the surface terminates with pendant groups of pyrophosphate, which 
surround two pairs of vanadium ions (Fig. 4). In each couple, constituted of 
two octahedra sharing corners, one vanadium terminates with a double- 
\\ I 
S
,
i
 
;Si. 0
,
 
O-,v.=o 
p OH 
’; 
si 
\ 
si, 
\ 
\ 
0 
\\ p“ 
0 
V
.
 
FIG. 3. A proposed model of the local coordination of V” sites in silicalite. 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
422 
ALBONETTI, CAVANI, AND TRIFIR~ 
TABLE 5 
Atomic Ratio, (Nontransition Element)/(Vanadium), 
Necessary to Obtain High 
Selectivity on Various Catalysts, as Reported in the Literature 
Nonselective 
Catalyst 
Selective 
catalyst 
Ref. 
P N C 1  
SbN c 
1 
M g N c 1  
N b N C 1  
P
N
 > 1.05 
SbN > 2 
MgN > 1.5 
Nb/v> 10 
13 
37 
38 
23 
f 
I 
basal plane 1
1
0
0
1
 
FIG. 4. Schematic representation of the idealized structure of (VO),P,O,. 
bonded oxygen; the second vanadium is present on the surface with unsatu- 
rated coordination, and the V=O group is projected toward the internal part 
of the crystal. Thus, vanadium ions exist on the surface isolated from other 
groups of vanadium ions, and they are localized inside a cavity or cleft in 
the walls formed by phosphorus ions. The fundamental role of V
"
 
species 
formed in the reaction environment over the surface of crystalline (VO),P,O, 
[40] has been confirmed by Volta and coworkers [41]. The mechanism for- 
mulated by Grasselli et al. [42] also suggests the formation of oxidized va- 
nadium species. 
In the case of catalysts based on vanadium antimonate, active in direct 
propane ammoxidation to acrylonitrile, it was found that an excess of anti- 
mony in the structure leads to a decrease in the catalytic activity but to a 
remarkable increase in the selectivity and maximum yield to acrylonitrile. 
The best catalysts contained a large excess of antimony. Some authors [37,43] 
have attributed the improvement in selectivity and yield to a synergic effect 
resulting from migration of antimony atoms to the surface of VSbO,, thus 
diluting the vanadium species. 
Among the catalysts that have recently been receiving much attention 
for the synthesis of olefins from C, and C, paraffins are the Mg vanadates; 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
423 
these catalysts are active in the 500-600°C temperature range. The depen- 
dence of the specific activity of V/Mg/O catalysts on vanadium content con- 
firms that the vanadium ions act as active sites for propane oxidation. The 
exact identity of the active phase is still under debate. It seems clear, however, 
that the presence of just one phase is not sufficient to explain the catalytic 
performance of this system. The Mg3(V0,), phase spread over MgO is con- 
sidered to be the most active and selective composition in n-butane oxyde- 
hydrogenation, due to the presence of isolated VO, units which are not active 
in oxygen insertion into activated hydrocarbon. The presence of excess MgO 
increases the catalytic activity, and because pure MgO is less active than 
these catalysts, as well as quite unselective, it seems that some synergic effect 
between the MgO and Mg orthovanadate must occur. This effect is maxi- 
mized when the two phases are present in almost equivalent amounts in the 
catalyst [44,45]. 
In propane oxidation, Delmon and coworkers [38] have suggested that 
among the three pure Mg vanadates, the pyrovanadate is the most selective 
but that the catalytic behavior of multiphase catalysts is quite different. For 
example, the selectivity of the Mg orthovanadate phase can be improved by 
the coexisting pyrovanadate phase or by an excess of the Mg oxide phase, 
suggesting that some sort of cooperation may exist in these types of catalysts. 
Catalysts based on the Nb/V/O system have been tested for the oxidative 
dehydrogenation of paraffins [46,47]. Niobium oxide itself is a selective cat- 
alyst, but the addition of vanadium improves the activity while maintaining 
high selectivity. The temperature at which propane conversion starts is 200°C 
below that required with unpromoted Nb205; 
the selectivity achieved is more 
than 80%. The authors hypothesized that as the amount of vanadium in- 
creases, a compound (possibly a solid solution of vanadium in niobia) is 
initially formed in which the vanadium is present in sites that are not partic- 
ularly active. But, when the vanadium content exceeds 1 
mol%, up to about 
10 mol%, a new, more active and selective compound is formed. Further 
addition of vanadia forms bulk V,05 and decreases the selectivity. 
In the catalytic oxidation processes that use hydrogen peroxide as the 
oxidizing agent, where elements other than vanadium are used, the transition 
element is also present isolated in an inert matrix. For example, titanium 
silicalite, a catalytic system able to oxidize alkene, aromatic, and alkane sub- 
strates in the presence of hydrogen peroxide, is an interesting material ob- 
tained by isomorphous substitution of Ti4' in the framework of crystalline 
silicalites [48,49]. In the liquid-phase hydroxylation of paraffins with titanium 
silicalite, lattice Ti ions, well dispersed in the zeolite framework, react with 
H,O, giving rise to very active electrophilic species. 
Therefore, it seems that transition metals at their highest oxidation state 
are necessary components of a system designated to activate a paraffin. Va- 
nadium at its highest oxidation state seems to be a key element in the gas- 
phase activation of paraffins. In fact, butenes are selectively formed on Mg 
vanadates; V5' sites were found at the surface of the (VO),P,O, [40,41]. In 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
424 
ALBONETTI, CAVANI, AND TRIFIRd 
the liquid-phase oxidation of isobutane with iron porphyrin complexes, an 
oxometal ferry1 species with a high oxidation state is thought to be the active 
species [50]; also polyoxometalates exhibit a high oxidative power, due to 
the easy reducibility and reoxidizability of Mo6+ 
ions in the Keggin anion 
[511. 
Statement 2: The transition element must be present isolated in a quasi- 
inert matrix and in its highest oxidation state. 
IV. ROLE OF THE STABILITY OF THE PRODUCT 
There is no doubt that one reason why the only industrial process for 
selective oxidation of a paraffin is the synthesis of maleic anhydride from n- 
butane relates to the stability of the product. Notwithstanding the stability of 
maleic anhydride, many improvements in the process and modifications in 
catalyst composition have been aimed at lowering the extent of maleic an- 
hydride decomposition. For instance the tuning of P/V ratio, the activation 
procedure, and the addition of promoters all operate to lower overoxidation 
at high conversion. The types of products obtained on V/p/O mixed oxides 
active and selective in n-butane oxidation are compared in Table 6 with those 
obtained in the heterogeneous oxidation of other paraffins in almost analogous 
conditions. These data indicate that V/p/O mixed oxides activate paraffins, 
but some of the products formed can be easily oxidized to carbon oxides. 
Higher selectivities are possible only when products more stable against fur- 
ther oxidation are formed, such as anhydrides or nitriles. Thus, these results 
indicate that the drastic differences in the products obtained cannot be attrib- 
uted to a different mechanism of activation of paraffins, but rather are due to 
the differences in the intrinsic sensitivity to further unselective oxidation of 
the reaction products. V/P/O catalysts can also be selective in the oxidation 
of ethane to acetic acid and of propane to acrylic acid, but only when very 
TABLE 6 
Types of Products Obtained on VP/O Catalysts in the Transformation 
of Various Paraffins 
Paraffin 
Products 
Ref. 
Ethane 
Propane 
Propane + NH, 
n-Butane 
n-Pentane 
n-Hexane 
Cyclohexane 
COX, 
acetic acid 
COX, 
acrylic acid 
Acrylonitrile, COX 
Maleic anhydride, COX 
Phthalic and maleic anhydrides, COX 
C
O
X
 
Benzene 
3, 52 
52 
53 
13, 27 
17, 54 
52 
17 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
425 
mild conditions are used, at which the products can be saved from consecutive 
unselective degradation. Under these conditions the conversion of the paraffin 
is usually very low, while in the case of the synthesis of anhydrides from C, 
and C, paraffins, very high conversions of the hydrocarbon can be reached. 
Research for the development of catalysts selective in the oxidation of 
propane began long ago; however, because the oxygenated products, such as 
acrolein, are easily further oxidized once formed, sufficient yields of partially 
oxidized products have not been attained [55-571. Therefore, the catalytic 
ammoxidation of propane to acrylonitrile, which is more stable than acrolein 
against further oxidation, has been a main issue. For example, a comparison 
between oxidation and ammoxidation of propane on Sb/V/O-based catalysts 
shows that in the oxidation of propane, only the formation of carbon oxides 
is detected, while in the ammoxidation reaction, acrylonitrile is selectively 
formed [58]. 
Table 7 reports the maximum yield obtained in the oxidative dehydro- 
genation of several paraffins. It is well known that propane and butanes are 
more reactive than ethane because secondary C-H bonds are more reactive 
than primary ones, but due to the presence of allylic carbon atoms on the 
olefins formed, these products are also susceptible to oxygen insertion, re- 
sulting in the formation of coproducts such as aldehydes, ketones, and acids 
along with the olefins [lo]. These may be precursors for the formation of the 
carbon oxides, especially if hard reaction conditions are needed to activate 
the paraffin. Thus, high selectivities were obtained only to ethylene from 
ethane and to butadiene from n-butane, while the lowest selectivity was ob- 
tained in isobutene production, where two allylic hydrogen positions are 
present. 
Table 8 reports the maximum yield and selectivity obtained in the pro- 
duction of oxygenates or nitriles. A general feature of these processes is that 
the selectivity to the final product is decreased by increasing the alkane con- 
version. The only exception is the production of acrylonitrile, where a high 
yield was obtained for this process. 
Statement 3: The stability of the product is a key factor in obtaining 
high selectivity. 
TABLE 7 
Maximum Yield Obtained in the Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Several Paraffins 
Reaction 
Yield % 
Ref. 
Isobutane + 
isobutene 
Propane - 
propylene 
n-Butane - 
butenes + butadiene 
Ethane - 
ethylene 
9 
25 
38 
56 
59 
10, 11 
12 
60 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
426 
ALBONETTI, CAVANI, AND TRIFIRb 
TABLE 8 
Maximum Yield and Selectivity Obtained in the Oxidation and Ammoxidation of 
Some Alkanes 
~ 
Reaction 
Yield, % 
Selectivity, % 
Ref. 
Ethane - 
acetic acid 
1.2 
43 
3 
Propane - 
acrolein 
8 
63 
7 
Propane - 
acrylonitrile 
58 
64 
9 
Propane - 
acrylic acid 
8 
37 
8 
Isobutane -+ methacrylic acid 
8 
56 
14, 61 
V. 
ROLE OF MULTIFUNCTIONALITY 
A. Multifunctionality as a Criterion in Catalyst Design 
In the search for catalysts selective for oxygen or nitrogen insertion on 
alkanes, the first rule is to design a catalyst on the basis of the following 
virtual mechanism: 
Alkane - 
olefin - 
oxygenate (or nitrile) 
The advantage of this is the possibility of using the existing knowledge of 
catalysts for selective oxidation of olefins and dehydrogenation or oxydehy- 
drogenation of alkanes. 
This type of approach is clearly seen when examining the patent liter- 
ature issued on propane ammoxidation over the years. The following four 
types of catalytic systems can be singled out: 
1. Addition o
f
 
Halogen Compounds in the Gas Phase 
The first patent for this type of process was issued around 1970 by 
Monsanto [62] and the main claim was the addition of halogen compounds 
(volatile chlorine and bromine compounds) to the reactant mixture. The cat- 
alysts used were conventional catalysts for the ammoxidation of olefins based 
on Mo or on Sb (no vanadium was present). The role of the halogen com- 
pound was to catalyze radical oxidative dehydrogenation of the paraffin in 
the gas phase at relatively low temperatures. The drawbacks of this approach 
were the corrosion problems, the contamination of the product by halogen 
compounds, and the low space-time yield presented by the gas-phase 
oxidation. 
2. Processes Working at High Temperature and with High 
Propane Concentration 
In order to achieve high productivity to acrylonitrile at low propane 
conversion and without the addition of halide, the use of high propane con- 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
427 
centration and high reaction temperature was proposed. A propane concen- 
tration of 80% and a temperature of around 500°C were typically used [63]. 
It is useful to emphasize that with these reaction conditions, both vanadium- 
based catalysts and vanadium-free compounds (conventional catalysts for ole- 
fin ammoxidation) show the same productivity. Very likely the high temper- 
ature coupled with the high propane concentration allows the first 
dehydrogenation reaction to take place homogeneously in the gas phase. 
Good examples of this approach can be found in the papers published over 
the years by Moro-oka’s group [64,65]. Moro-oka studied the ammoxidation 
and oxidation of propane at high temperature (T > 500°C) and at high propane 
concentration. The catalysts used were scheelite-type complex metal oxides 
consisting of bismuth oxide, niobium oxide, and molybdenum oxide. Moro- 
oka recognized that the previously named promoters for alkane activation 
were indeed poisons for conventional catalysts for propylene ammoxidation. 
In fact, propylene is formed in the gas phase by a homogeneous gas-phase 
radical reaction, and conventional catalysts must be doped in order to de- 
crease the activity at the high temperature necessary to realize the homoge- 
neous dehydrogenation. 
The drawbacks of this process are the difficulties in scaling up a 
homogeneous-heterogeneous reaction, the low space yield of the dehydro- 
genation reaction, and the high amount of propane recycled. 
3. Dual Type o
f
 
Catalysts 
Another research trend has been directed towards the development of a 
process utilizing a dual type of catalyst where a mixture of two components 
is used. The first component (based on V/Sb mixed oxides) has been claimed 
to be able to dehydrogenate the alkane while the second one is a conventional 
catalyst for the ammoxidation of propylene. 
4. Intrinsic Multifunctional Catalysts 
Sohio issued several patents claiming catalysts based on vanadium, an- 
timony, and some promoters which are able to ammoxidize propane without 
any radical reaction. These catalysts can be considered intrinsically multi- 
functional since both dehydrogenation and nitrogen insertion functions are 
present. The main problem of this type of catalyst is the low rate of the 
consecutive ammoxidation of intermediate propylene. Indeed, propylene. is 
always present as a by-product. 
Mitsubishi Kasei Company recently disclosed a new intrinsic multi- 
functional catalyst based on Mo/V/Te/Nb mixed oxides [9]. The catalytic 
system developed gives the highest yield to acrylonitrile to date. 
This type of approach can also be clearly seen in the reaction of propane 
oxidation where catalytic systems similar to the ammoxidation of propane 
have been proposed. 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
428 
ALBONETTI, CAVANI, AND 
TRIFIRb 
Other examples of catalytic systems which are characterized by intrinsic 
multifunctional properties are the use of vanadyl pyrophosphate (the industrial 
catalyst for the oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride) and transition 
metal modified 12-molybdophosphates (heteropolycompounds) for the oxi- 
dation of isobutane to methacrylic acid. Heteropolycompounds are still far 
from industrial application for this reaction, but they are recognized to be the 
best system for the activation of isobutane [13,14,61]. In these cases, it is 
likely that a combination of acid and redox properties are necessary in order 
to obtain active and selective catalysts. The importance of acidity in the 
selective oxidation of paraffins is discussed in the following sections. 
B. Multifinctionality as a Tool to Explain the Reaction Mechanism 
In the oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride, no intermediate prod- 
ucts have been observed under usual reaction conditions. However, in order 
to explain a reaction where 14 electrons and 6 molecular oxygen bond breaks 
are involved, the formation of the product through different intermediates 
must be assumed. The reaction pattern proposed in Table 9 shows the ele- 
mentary steps necessary to obtain maleic anhydride and the type of active 
sites that are required. The multifunctional nature of the V/P/O system has 
been confirmed by the oxidation of model compounds where the different 
steps in the reaction pattern have been singled out. The reactions investigated 
and the main products obtained are reported in Table 10 [27]. The high se- 
lectivity obtained for each reaction provides evidence of the multifunctional 
nature of V/P/O catalysts. 
C. Inadequacy o
f
 Multifinctionality Alone 
The concept of multifunctionality is not sufficient for the design of op- 
timal catalysts. Indeed, at present no adequate catalyst has been found for the 
oxidation of propane and for the oxidation of isobutane and ethane. The multi- 
TABLE 9 
Proposed Steps in the Oxidation of n-Butane to Maleic Anhydride 
Reaction step 
Type of reaction 
+Butane - 
butenes 
Oxidative deydrogenation 
Butenes - 
butadiene 
Allylic oxidation 
Butadiene - 
2,5-dihydrofuran 
2,5-Dihydrofuran - 
furan 
Furan - 
maleic anhydride 
or 
2,5-Dihydrofuran - 
y-but-2-enoic lactone 
y-But-2-enoic lactone - 
maleic anhydride 
1-4 oxygen insertion 
Allylic H abstraction 
Electrophylic oxygen insertion 
Allylic oxidation 
Allylic oxidation 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
429 
TABLE 10 
Multifunctional Nature of the VP/O 
Catalysts 
Type of reaction 
Reaction 
~ 
~ 
~~ 
Oxidative dehydrogenation 
Isobutyric acid - 
methacrylic acid 
Cyclohexane + 
benzene 
Hexahydrophthalic anhydride - 
phthalic anhydride 
2,5-Dihydrofuran + 
furan 
Tetrahydrophthalic anhydride - 
phthalic anhydride 
Benzene + 
maleic anhydride 
Naphthalene + 
naphthoquinone 
Methacrolein + 
methacrylic acid 
Allylic oxidation 
Butene - 
butadiene 
1-4 oxygen insertion 
Electrophilic oxygen 
insertion 
functionality must be accompanied by other properties, which allow multistep 
transformation of the paraffin to be carried out (i) without letting desorption 
of any intermediate occur, and (ii) through the proper sequence of dehydro- 
genation and oxygen insertion reactions. 
1. Nondesorption o
f
 Intermediates 
In the oxidation of paraffins, the slow step of the reaction must be the 
alkane activation or at least the reoxidation of the catalyst. In other words, 
once the alkane has been adsorbed and transformed to the first intermediate 
species, the latter has to be quickly transformed up to the final stable product 
by neighboring specific active sites. If this requirement is not met, the ad- 
sorbed intermediate (possibly an olefiniclike species) may desorb; this leads 
to a lower selectivity to the final desired product, because the olefin may be 
readsorbed on nonspecific oxidizing sites yielding other undesired products 
(aldehydes or acids), which can also be precursors for the formation of carbon 
oxides. 
Therefore, a quick transformation of the adsorbed intermediates to ox- 
idized (or ammoxidized) products is necessary in order to obtain high selec- 
tivity to the desired product. In order to guarantee this selective pathway, the 
catalyst surface must provide the required arrangement of specific oxidizing 
sites: the different functional properties must be arranged so to provide an 
ensemble of sites (or, alternatively, sites with multifunctional properties) able 
to allow the reaction pathway from the alkane adsorption and activation up 
to its transformation to the final product to be completed. 
This is the case of n-butane and n-pentane oxidation, which under usual 
reaction conditions only yield the anhydrides (maleic from n-butane, maleic 
and phthalic from n-pentane) and carbon oxides [54]. In this case, it has been 
calculated that the rate of oxidation of butene (a possible first intermediate 
in the oxidation of n-butane) is 20 to 60 times higher than the rate of acti- 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
430 
ALBONETTI, CAVANI, AND TRIFIRO 
vation of the alkane, and the selectivity in the oxidation of all intermediates 
seems to be near 100% [27,66]. 
On the contrary, when vanadyl pyrophosphate is used to catalyze the 
transformation of butenes and pentenes, the catalyst deactivates easily and 
the performance is very poor. This occurs because the acidity of the catalyst 
is responsible for side reactions when the olefins are directly used as the 
feedstock. In this case, in fact, due to its high nucleophilicity the olefin may 
easily interact with different types of sites, other than those able to transform 
it directly to the final anhydrides. Therefore, the surface acidity of the vanadyl 
pyrophosphate, which seems to be a necessary property for the transforma- 
tion of n-butane, is a negative feature when the corresponding olefin is the 
reactant. 
For the same reason, the synthesis of acrylic acid from propylene must 
be carried out in two separate reactors, one for the oxidation of propylene to 
methacrolein and one for the oxidation of the latter to acrylic acid. This is 
because the requirements needed for the two steps make the two reactions 
incompatible. Acidity is needed in the second step, to favor the desorption 
of acrylic acid and save it from unselective consecutive reaction, while on 
the other hand, acidity is detrimental for the first reaction, because it favors 
the transformation of propylene to undesired products. Therefore, the devel- 
opment of the process for the one-step transformation of propane to acrylic 
acid will be possible when a catalyst is developed which possesses active 
sites able to perform the complete transformation of adsorbed propane to the 
acrylic acid quickly, the latter being the only product which desorbs into the 
gas phase. Accordingly, best performances in the oxidation of propane to 
acrylic acid have been recently reported to be obtained on heteropolyoxo- 
molybdates, which are known to couple tunable acid and redox properties 
[51]. In this case, acid properties may facilitate the desorption of acrylic 
acid. 
The same applies for some reactions where the low selectivity to the 
desired product is due to the formation of considerable amounts of interme- 
diate products, such as: (i) the oxidation of isobutane to methacrylic acid, 
where methacrolein is always present; (ii) the ammoxidation of propane to 
acrylonitrile with Sb/V/O-based catalysts, where propylene is always present; 
and (iii) the oxidation of ethane to acetic acid, where ethylene is always 
present. The fact that intermediate olefins desorb in most of the actual cata- 
lysts for the selective functionalization of alkanes is evidence that the main 
problem in these catalytic systems is not the first step of the reaction (the 
activation of alkane) but indeed is the second step, the selective transforma- 
tion of olefins. 
Statement 4: 
The multifunctional centers of the catalyst must be arranged 
so as to favor the quick transformation of intermediates, avoiding their 
desorption and the occurrence of undesired side reactions. 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
431 
2. Correct Sequence o
f
 Dehydrogenation and Oxygen Insertion Reactions 
This concept can be exemplified in the activity of vanadium oxide based 
catalysts in the oxidation of n-butane and n-butenes. 
In the oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride, the reaction pattern 
shown in Scheme 1 can be proposed. In this pattern the formation of an 
olefiniclike intermediate occurs via a contemporary abstraction of two H at- 
oms. In addition, the olefiniclike intermediate must be quickly oxydehydro- 
genated to an adsorbed dieniclike compound in order to favor the selective 
pathway towards maleic anhydride. This reaction may occur concurrently 
with the oxidation of allylic carbon atoms, with formation of aldehydes and 
acids which can also be precursors of carbon oxides. Thus, the selectivity to 
maleic anhydride depends on the relative rates of hydrogen abstraction and 
oxygen insertion. 
It is also interesting to compare the relative rates of oxidation of benzene 
and n-butane on two commercial catalysts for the synthesis of anhydride: the 
V/P/O system and the V/Mo/O system [MI. 
These two catalysts have similar 
activities in n-butane oxidation, while V/Mo/O has a higher activity in ben- 
zene oxidation. The activity in benzene oxidation can be used as a measure 
of the rate of the oxygen insertion reaction. Although both catalysts are 
selective in benzene oxidation to maleic anhydride, the selectivity of the 
V/h40/0 system in n-butane oxidation is very low. Thus, the V/Mo/O catalyst 
is very active for oxygen insertion into benzene but is not a suitable catalyst 
for the production of maleic anhydride from n-butane. This behavior is due 
to its rate of oxygen insertion, which is very high with respect to the rate of 
dehydrogenation, causing the oxidation of intermediate butene to oxygen- 
containing compounds rather than its dehydrogenation to butadiene. 
In the case of the oxidation of ethane to acetic acid, on the contrary, the 
higher rate of H abstraction in comparison with oxygen insertion is respon- 
sible for the low selectivity obtained in the production of acetic acid. 
In conclusion, the two requirements which must accompany the multi- 
functionality can be fulfilled with catalysts which present intrinsic multifunc- 
tionality with different sites near the adsorption site. This is the case with 
V/P/O, where the adsorbed n-butane is, very likely, transformed to the final 
-H 
-H 
+O 
+O rnaleic 
n-butane - 
butenes - 
butadiene - 
furan -anhydride 
I 
+O 
acetic acid 
crotonaldehyde 
1
-
 
cox 
methylvinylketone 
SCHEME 1. Reaction pattern for the oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhy- 
dride on V P  
mixed oxides. 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
432 
ALBONETTI, CAVANI, AND TRIFIR6 
product without moving from the first adsorption site. Also the catalysts pro- 
posed by Mitsubishi, which have the best performance in the ammoxidation 
of propane to acrylonitrile, can probably be considered perfect intrinsic mul- 
tifunctional catalysts. 
VI. ROLE OF THE TYPE OF C-H BOND ACTIVATION 
Being more accessible, the C-H bond of alkanes are more susceptible 
to attack than are the C-C bonds. An incoming reagent has the choice of (i) 
donating electron density to the C-H 
(T* orbital, (ii) abstracting C-H 
a-bonding electrons, or (iii) doing both at once [67]. The first strategy seems 
to be the least successful as nucleophilic agents do not react with alkanes. 
The second strategy is adopted by a variety of electrophilic reagents such as 
Lewis acids. The third strategy appears to be the one adopted by radicals, 
metal surfaces, and low-valence metal complexes. 
The heterolitic activation of paraffins requires the presence of acid or 
basic sites on the surface of the catalyst. Acidic sites may promote a dissoci- 
ation to give a carbocation, while basic sites may facilitate the hydrogen ab- 
straction in a protonic form, leading to the formation of a carbanion. Matsuura 
et al. [16] studied the ammoxidation of isobutane to methacrylonitrile using 
a mixture of BiMo mixed oxides and amorphous Nb,O,. While the activities 
of both the niobium oxide and of the Bi/Mo/O systems are fairly poor, the 
Bi/Mo/Nb/O system showed an improved catalytic activity with high selec- 
tivity to methacrolein and methacrylonitrile. These results seem to indicate 
that strong acidic properties are required for the ammoxidation of lower al- 
kanes. In particular, the authors suggest that the amorphous and supported 
Nb205, 
which have strong acidic sites, extract the hydrogen anion, H-, from 
isobutane, forming the ion (CH,),C', 
which can be ammoxidized to meth- 
acrylonitrile on the Bi/Mo oxide. 
On V/P/O catalysts Lewis acid sites have been identified by Fourier- 
transform infrared spectroscopic (FT-IR) 
analysis of absorbed basic molecules 
[27] and it has been proposed that the role of these acidic sites is to abstract, 
simultaneously with a basic oxygen, two hydrogens from the two -CH2- 
groups of n-butane via a concerted mechanism [13,27]. The formation of 
adsorbed olefins by simultaneous elimination of two hydrogen atoms, as op- 
posed to the elimination of only one hydrogen, is preferable since it avoids 
the formation of adsorbed radical species. These species can either desorb 
and react with molecular oxygen or interact with surface oxygen species, 
forming oxygenated by-products, precursors for the formation of carbon ox- 
ides via oxidative cleavage of the C=C bond. However, the fate of radical 
species under oxidizing conditions is a function of the reaction conditions 
[68]. At relatively high temperature (higher than 500"-550°C) radical species 
are quickly desorbed in the gas phase and are here transformed with great 
specificity to olefins. The competition between heterogeneous and homoge- 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
433 
neous mechanisms is exemplified in Fig. 5 for the transformation of ethane 
to ethylene with catalysts which operate at temperatures higher than 450°C. 
Analogously, in the case of propane oxidation at high temperature (or in the 
presence of halogens), the first hydrogen is abstracted from the secondary 
carbon and the isopropyl radical formed can either react in the gas phase 
with molecular oxygen to form propylene or peroxides, or react at the surface 
of the catalyst to produce oxygenates. The formation of propyl radicals at 
high temperature is also responsible for the formation of lighter hydrocarbon 
fragments 
. 
VII. ROLE OF ACIDITY AND BASICITY 
In addition to their role in the activation of alkanes, the presence of 
acid-basic sites on the catalyst surface may have a considerable effect on 
the selectivity of the catalytic system. In fact, the acidity is necessary in the 
case of production of anhydrides or acids because it facilitates the desorption 
of the product, avoiding its overoxidation. Contrary to this, in the case of 
olefin as the final product, basic or neutral catalysts are required in order to 
let the olefin desorb and to minimize side reactions. 
On VP/O 
mixed oxides Bransted acid sites have been identified and 
have been attributed to the presence of P-OH 
groups that belong to trun- 
C,H, + Os- 
I surface activation 
(rate-determining step) 
C,H;+ 
OH,- 
surface mechanism 
aas-Dhase mechanism 
\ 
J 
'A 
C2H4, 
OH- CO,, H20 
4- - - - 
I 
- - - - - - reactions favored at low temperature 
____, 
reactions favored at high temperature 
FIG. 5. Summary of the mechanisms proposed in the literature for the oxi- 
dative dehydrogenation of ethane. 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
434 
ALBONETTI, CAVANI, AND TRIFIR~ 
cated P-0 bonds in terminal phosphorus tetrahedra [69]. These sites stabilize 
the intermediates avoiding their desorption through the formation of P-0-C 
bonds and facilitate the desorption of maleic anhydride, preventing its 
overoxidation. 
The catalytic performance of different metal vanadates in n-butane oxy- 
dehydrogenation has been published by Kung [lo]. The absence of oxygen- 
ated compounds over MgPJIO systems was correlated by the author to the 
basicity of these materials, which favored the rapid desorption of the olefin 
formed and limited the consecutive oxidation to maleic anhydride or to other 
oxygen-containing compounds. 
In the case of C,-C, alkanes oxydehydrogenation to olefins [26,28,29], 
it was found that the acid-basic properties of the catalysts had a considerable 
effect on the catalytic performance, mainly in regard to the selectivity to the 
olefin. On basic V/Mg/O catalysts the selectivity to olefins decreased in the 
order: n-butane > propane > ethane, while on acid V/Al/O catalysts an op- 
posite trend was observed. In both cases, acid or basic properties of the 
catalyst allowed the olefin to desorb quickly, decreasing the formation of 
oxygen-containing products and carbon oxides. 
Moreover, the acid-basic properties of a catalyst can influence the na- 
ture and the dispersion of the active sites, strongly affecting the catalytic 
activity of the system. For example, Corma et al. [28] investigated the oxi- 
dative dehydrogenation of propane and n-butane on supported vanadium ox- 
ides. They found that the acid-basic character of the support influences the 
nature and the dispersion of surface vanadium species. The authors suggest 
that the basic character of the support favors the formation of V5+ 
tetrahedral 
species, increasing the selectivity to dehydrogenated products, while on acidic 
supports V,05 is formed, leading to catalysts that exhibit poor selectivity. 
Ethane oxydehydrogenation to produce ethylene over supported vana- 
dium catalysts has been studied by Wan et al. [70]. The results of the kinetic 
studies on these catalytic systems showed that the ethane dehydrogenation 
rates were enhanced by the presence of acidic sites on the supports. Since 
from the proposed reaction mechanism it seemed that the reduction of the 
vanadium sites by absorbed ethane was the rate-determining step, it was sug- 
gested that the support acidity can either promote the vanadium reduction 
activity or increase the equilibrium constant of ethane absorption on the 
catalyst. 
Statement 5: Acidity and basicity of the catalyst favors the desorption 
of products: (i) the basicity in the case of olefins; (ii) the acidity in the 
case of anhydrides and acids. 
VIII. CONCLUSIONS 
Some replies can now be given to the questions proposed in the 
introduction: 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
435 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
‘
I
 
How is it possible to avoid total oxidation of the desired product 
without operating at very low contact time, when the product itself 
is more reactive than the paraffin? 
1. The multifunctionality of a catalyst must be realized in the same 
structure, in order to facilitate the multistep transformation of the 
paraffin and avoid the desorption of intermediates and the oc- 
currence of side reactions. 
Isolation of the oxidation sites and the lack of mobility of the 
lattice oxygens are factors which minimize overoxidation of the 
products. 
Acidity and basicity of the catalyst may affect the desorption of 
products. 
The stability of the product is a determining factor in affecting 
the selectivity at high paraffin conversion. 
The preferred formation of olefins through a concerted mecha- 
nism of oxydehydrogenation in the first activation of alkane ver- 
sus the formation of radicals, can direct the transformation of 
reaction intermediates to products of allylic oxidation. 
It is important to design catalysts where it is possible to control 
the relative rates of the activation of alkane and of the following 
reactions of transformation of the latter to the final product. 
Is the selectivity also related to the reaction pattern? 
It is important to design catalysts where it is possible to control the 
relative rates of oxidative dehydrogenation and oxygen insertion 
reactions to synthesize more stable products. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Is the selectivity also related to the mechanism of activation? 
1. 
2. 
REFERENCES 
J. Le Bars, A. Auroux, S. Trautmann, and M. Baerns, in Proceedings, DGMK 
Conference on Selective Oxidation in Petrolchemistry, Goslar, Germany, 
DGMK (German Society for Petroleum and Coal Science and Technology), 
Hamburg, 1992, p. 59. 
S. J. Conway, D. 3. Wang, and J. H. Lunsford, Appl, Catal. A: General, 79, 
L1 (1991). 
P. Barthe and G. Blanchard, Fr. Patent 90 12,519 (1990), assigned to Rhone 
Poulenc Chimie. 
G. Bellussi, G. Centi, S. Perathoner, and F. Trifirb, in Catalytic Selective Oxi- 
dation (S. T. Oyama and J. W. Hightower, eds.), American Chemical Society, 
Washington, DC, 1992, p. 281. 
G. Centi, S. Perathoner, F
.
 Trifiro, A. Aboukais, C. F. Aissi, and M. Guelton, 
J. Phys. Chem., 96, 2617 (1992). 
C. Mazzocchia, C. Aboumrad, C. Daigne, E. Tempesti, J. M. Herrmann, and 
G. Thomas, Catal. Lett., 10, 
181 (1991). 
I .  Y. C. Kim, W. Ueda, and Y. Moro-oka, Catal. Today, 13, 673 (1992). 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
436 
ALBONETTI, CAVANI, AND TRIFIRO 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
M. Ai, Catal. Today, 12, 679 (1992). 
T. Ushikubo, K. Oshima, A. Kayo, T. Umezawa, K. Kiyono, and I. Sawaki, 
Eur. Patent 529,853 A
2
 (1992), assigned to Mitsubishi Kasei Co. 
H. H. Kung, Adv. Catal., 
40, 1 
(1994). 
D. Bhattacharyya, S. K. Bej, and M. S. Rao, Appl. Catal. A: General, 87, 29 
(1992). 
Yu. A. Panteleeva, A. M. Musaev, R. M. Talyshinskii, Zh. M. Seifullaeva, and 
R. G. Rizaev, Kinet. Catal., 32, 571 (1989). 
F. Cavani and F. Trifirb, in Catalysis, Vol. 11, Royal Society of Chemistry, 
Cambridge, 1994, p. 246. 
S. Yamamatsu and T. Yamaguchi, Eur. Patent 425,666 A1 (1989), assigned to 
Asahi Chemical Co. 
J. E. Lyons, P. E. Ellis, H. K. Myers, G. Suld, and W. A. Langdale, U.S. Patent 
4,859,798 (1989), assigned to Sun Refining & Marketing Co. 
I. Matsuura, H. Oda, and K. Oshida, Catal. Today, 16, 547 (1993). 
F
.
 Trifirb, Catal. Today, 16(1), 91 (1993). 
C. Fumagalli, G. 
Golinelli, G. Mazzoni, M. Messori, G. 
Stefani, and F. Trifirb, 
in New Developments in Selective Oxidation II (V. C. Corberan and S. Vic 
Bellon, eds.), Elsevier Science, Amsterdam, 1994, p. 221. 
E. Morales and J. H. Lunsford, J. Catal., 118, 255 (1989). 
R. Burch and S .  C. Tsang, Appl. Catal., 65, 259 (1990). 
M. Merzouki, B. Taouk, L. Monceaux, E. Bordes, and P. Courtine, in New 
Developments in Selective Oxidation by Heterogeneous Catalysis (P. Ruiz and 
B. Delmon, eds.), Elsevier Science, Amsterdam, 1992, p. 165. 
E. M. Thorsteinson, T. P. Wilson, F. G. Young, and P. H. Kasai, J. 
CataL, 52, 
116 (1978). 
R. H. H. Smits, K. Seshan, and J. R. H. Ross, in Catalytic Selective Oxidation 
(S. T. Oyama and J. W. Hightower, eds.), American Chemical Society, Wash- 
ington, DC, 1992, p. 381. 
N. Mizuno, M. Tateishi, and M. Iwamoto, Appl. Catal. A: General, 118, L1 
(1994). 
R. K. Grasselli, in Surface Properties and Catalysis by Non-Metals (J. Bon- 
nelle, B. Delmon, and E. Derouane, eds.), Reidel, Dordrecht, 1983, p. 273. 
A. Corma, J. M. Lopez-Nieto, N. Paredes, M. Perez, Y. Shen, H. Cao, and 
S. L. Suib, in New Developments in Selective Oxidation by Heterogeneous 
Catalysis, (P. Ruiz and B. Delmon, eds.), Elsevier Science, Amsterdam, 1992, 
p. 213. 
G. Centi, F. Trifirb, J. R. Ebner, and V
.
 Franchetti, Chem. Rev., 88, 55 (1988). 
A. Corma, J. M. Lopez-Nieto, N. Paredes, A. Dejos, and I. Vazquez, in New 
Developments in Selective Oxidation 1
1
 (V. C. Corberan and S. Vic Bellon, 
eds.), Elsevier Science, Amsterdam, 1994, p. 113. 
P. Concepcion, J. M. Lopez-Nieto, and J. Perez-Pariente, Catal. Lett., 19, 333 
(1993). 
D. Casarini, G. Centi, P. Jirii, V
.
 
Lena, and Z. Tvaruzkova, J. Catal., 143, 325 
(1993). 
S. Bordoni, F. Castellani, F. Cavani, F
.
 Trifirb, and M. P. Kulkarni, in New 
Developments in Selective Oxidation 1
1
 (V. Corberan and S. Vic Bellon, eds.), 
Elsevier Science, Amsterdam, 1994, p. 93. 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
S. Bordoni, F. Castellani, F. Cavani, F. Trifirb, and M. Gazzano, J. Chem. SOC. 
Faraday Trans., 90, 2981 (1994). 
S .  T. Oyama and G. A. Somorjai, in Catalytic Science and Technology, 
Vol. 1 
(S. Yoshida, N. Takezawa, and T. Ono, eds.), Kodansha, Tokyo, 1992, p. 219. 
P. J. Andersen and H. H. Kung, in New Frontiers in Catalysis, (L. Guczi, 
F. Solymosi and P. Tetenyi, eds.), Elsevier Science, Amsterdam, 1993, p. 205. 
L. Owens and H. H. Kung, J. Catal., 
144, 202 (1993). 
G. Centi, S. Perathoner, F. Trifiro, A. Aboukais, C. F. Aissi, and M. Guelton, 
J. Phys. Chem., 96, 2617 (1992). 
R. Nilsson, T. Lindblad, and A. Andersson, J. CataL, 148, 501 (1994). 
X. Gao, P. Ruiz, Q. Xin, X. Guo, and B. Delmon, J. Catal., 148, 56 (1994). 
M. R. Thompson and J. R. Ebner, in New Developments in Selective Oxidation 
by Heterogeneous Catalysis (P. Ruiz and B. Delmon, eds.), Elsevier Science, 
Amsterdam, 1992, p. 353. 
G. Busca, F. Cavani, G. Centi, and F. Trifirb, J. Catal., 
99, 400 (1986). 
N. Harrouch Batis, H. Batis, A. Ghorbel, J. C. Vedrine, and J. C. Volta, 
J. Catal., 128, 248 (1991). 
P. A. Agaskar, L. DeCaul, and R. K. Grasselli, Catal. Lett., 23, 339 (1994). 
A. Andersson, S. L. T. Andersson, G. Centi, R. K. Grasselli, M. Sanati, and 
F. Trifiro, in New Frontiers in Catalysis (L. Guczi, F. Solymosi, and P. Tetenyi, 
eds.), Elsevier Science, Amsterdam, 1993, p. 692. 
M. A. Chaar, D. Patel, M. C. Kung, and H. H. Kung, J. Catal., 
105,483 (1987). 
H. H. Kung and M. A. Chaar, US. Patent 4,777,319 (1988). 
R. H. H. Smits, K. Seshan, and J. R. H. Ross, J. Chem. SOC., 
Chem. Commun., 
8, 558 (1991). 
R. H. H. Smits, K. Seshan, and J. R. H. Ross, in New Developments in Selective 
Oxidation by Heterogeneous Catalysis (P. Ruiz and B. Delmon, eds.), Elsevier 
Science, Amsterdam, 1992, p. 221. 
G. Bellussi, A. Carati, M. G. Clerici, G. Maddinelli, and R. Millini, J. 
Catal., 
33, 220 (1992). 
M. G. Clerici and P. Ingallina, J. Catal., 140, 71 (1993). 
3. E. Lyons and P. E. Ellis, Catal. Lett., 8, 45 (1991). 
M. T. Pope, Heteropoly and Isopoly Oxometalates, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 
1983. 
G. Centi and F. Trifirb, Catal. Today, 3, 151 (1988). 
G. Centi, D. Pesheva, and F. Trifiro, Appl. Catal., 33, 343 (1987). 
G. Centi, J. M. Lopez-Nieto, D. Pinelli, and F. Trifird, Znd. Eng. Chem. Res., 
28, 400 (1989). 
Y. Moro-oka and W. Ueda, in Catalysis, Vol. 11, Royal Society of Chemistry, 
Cambridge, 1994, p. 223. 
Y. C. Kim, W. Ueda, and Y. Moro-oka, J. Chem. SOC., 
Chem. Commun., 1989, 
p. 652. 
M. Ai, J. Chem. SOC. 
Chem. Commun., 1986, p. 786. 
G. Centi, R. K. Grasselli, E. Patanb, and F. Trifirb, in New Developments in 
Selective Oxidation (G. Centi and F. Trifirb, eds.), Elsevier Science, Amster- 
dam, 1990, p. 515. 
Y. Takita, K. Kurosaki, Y. Mizuhara, and T. Ishihara, Chem. 
Lett., 1993, p. 335. 
SELECTIVE OXIDATION OF PARAFFINS 
437 
60. S. J. Conway and J. H. Lunsford, J. Catal., 131, 513 (1991). 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
438 
ALBONETI~, 
CAVANI, AND TRIFIR~ 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
F. Cavani, E. Etienne, M. Favaro, A. Galli, F. Trifirb, and G. Hecquet, Catul. 
Lett., 32, 215 (1995). 
W. R. Knox, K. M. Taylor, and G. M. Tullman, U.S. Patent 3,833,638 (1974), 
assigned to Monsanto. 
N. Harris, U.S. Patent 3,860,534 (1975), assigned to Power-Gas. 
Y. C. Kim, W. Ueda, and Y. Moro-oka, Chem. Lett., 1989, p. 2173. 
Y. C. Kim, W. Ueda, and Y. Moro-oka, Appl. Catal., 70, 189 (1991). 
M. Misono, K. Miyamoto, K. Tsuji, T. Goto, N. Mizuno, and T. Okuhara, 
in New Developments in Selective Oxidation (G. Centi and F. Trifirb, eds.), 
Elsevier Science, Amsterdam, 1990, p. 605. 
R. H. Crabtree, Chem. Rev., 85, 245 (1985). 
F. Cavani and F. Trifirb, Catal. Today, 24, 307 (1995). 
J. R. Ebner and M. R. Thompson, Catal. Today, 16, 51 (1993). 
C. Y. Kao, K. T. Huang, and B. Z. Wan, Ind, Eng. Chem., Rex, 33, 2066 
(1994). 
Downloaded by [171.67.34.205] at 08:11 20 March 2013 
