I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Reply to Comment on Taming multiple valency with density functionals: A case study of defective ceria Stefano Fabris, Stefano de Gironcoli, and Stefano Baroni SISSA and CNR-INFM DEMOCRITOS National Simulation Center, Via Beirut 2-4, I-34014 Trieste, Italy Gianpaolo Vicario and Gabriele Balducci Chemistry Department and Center of Excellence for Nanostructured Materials, Universit di Trieste, Via Giorgieri 1,34127 Trieste, Italy Received 19 October 2005; published 23 December 2005 We address the issues raised in the preceding Comment by discussing the effects of an explicit account of the nonlinear core correction NLCC into the Ce pseudopotential employed in our previous calculations of reduced ceria Phys. Rev. B 71, 041102R 2005. At the plain density-functional-theory DFT level, such an account brings our pseudopotential results in good agreement with all-electron ones, which do not predict the insulating character of reduced ceria. At the DFT+U level, the inclusion of the NLCC has no effect on the previously reported electronic structure and equilibrium geometries. The dependency of the DFT+U energy on the choice of the projector functions defining the Hubbard-U functional is discussed in further detail.
DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.72.237102
PACS numbers: 71.15.Mb, 61.72.Ji, 82.47.Ed In a recent paper we have addressed the ability of density functional theory DFT to model the electronic properties of reduced ceria, that are determined by the quasi-degeneracy of states in which Ce-4f electrons are localized or, in turn,itinerant.1 Our main conclusion was that the addition of a Hubbard-U term to the standard local-density LDA or generalized-gradient GGA functionals stabilizes the insu- lating solution, in which f electrons are localized, with re- spect to the f-delocalized, metallic solution, thus consider- ably enhancing the predictive power of DFT for these systems. As a by-product of our investigation we also found that: i the insulating solution is stable even at the plain LDA or GGA levels i.e., without introducing any Hubbard- U term, and that ii the calculated DFT+U energy depends sensitively on the form of the atomiclike projector used to define the Hubbard-U term. A suitable choice of this projec- tor, based self-consistently on Wannier-Boys functions, re- sults in energies which agree with those predicted by plain
DFT. In this framework, the main effect of the Hubbard-U
term would be to enhance the stability of the insulating so- lution, without affecting its energy.
In a comment to our paper, Kresse et al.2 questioned the first of the above findings i by showing that all-electron AE calculations always result in a metallic solution for Ce2O3, when performed at the plain LDA or GGA levels.
They concluded that our findings are the result of an overes- timate of the exchange 4f splitting intrinsic to our pseudo- potential PP approach. In this reply we show that, while the findings of Kresse et al. are basically correct, their conclu- sions are not totally so, in that a simple account of the non- linear core correction3 NLCC to the exchange-correlation energy which we admittedly failed to consider in Ref. 1 would bring PP results in substantial agreement with AE ones, making the insulating solution of Ce2O3 unstable at the plain LDA or GGA levels. A proper account of the NLCC within DFT+U does not have any noticeable effects on the calculated equilibrium geometries, while the reduction ener- gies calculated at the GGA+U level result to be in better agreement with experiments than previously found.
In order to address the criticisms raised in Ref. 2, we have repeated some of the calculations already presented in Ref. 1 using a newly generated Ce pseudopotential differing from the one used in Ref. 1 only in the proper account for the
NLCC. The resulting ground state is metallic ferromagnetic
FM in plain DFT both at the LDA and GGA levels, see Fig. 1a, in agreement with the AE predictions of Ref. 2.
The structural properties equilibrium lattice parameter, bulk modulus, relaxed atomic coordinates of CeO2 and reduced ceria are unaffected by the account for the NLCC. The anti- ferromagnetic AF metallic solution for Ce2O3 is 0.09 eV LDA and 0.11 eV GGA per formula unit higher in energy than the FM metallic solution, again in good agreement with AE predictions. These results demonstrate that our chosen value for the core radius is not by itself responsible for the
FIG. 1. Electronic density of states DOS for Ce2O3 calculated
at the a plain DFT and b DFT+U levels. Occupied states are indicated by shaded areas.
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 72, 237102 2005
1098-0121/2005/7223/2371022/$23.00 2005 The American Physical Society 237102-1 observed discrepancy. In fact a simple account for the over- lap between core and valence densities using the NLCC is enough to bring the PP results in agreement with the AE ones.
Coming now to the implementation of the Hubbard-U term in the energy functional, the linear-response approach4 employed to calculate the value of the parameter U in the ground state of Ce2O3 with the newly generated Ce PP gives U=5.3 eV in the LDA and U=4.5 eV in the GGA. The LDA+U and GGA+U density of electronic states for Ce2O3 are shown in Fig. 1b. The position of the occupied gap state turns out to be still in good agreement with experiment,58 thus proving the internal consistency of the method. The DFT+U electronic ground state for reduced ceria obtained with the present PP is always insulating AF, as already reported.1 The main effect of the account for the NLCC in the DFT+U calculations is in the calculated values for the reduction energies. We stress again that the DFT+U total energy depends on the specific choice of the projector func- tions used to define the Hubbard-U functional. In the case of ceria, this dependency of the total energy on the value of U tends to deteriorate the fair agreement with experiment that can be obtained already at the plain GGA level. Figure 2 displays the dependence of the reduction energy CeO2 1/2 Ce2O3+1/4 O2 on the Hubbard-U parameter ob- tained with i the standard projector derived from Ce-4f atomic orbitals  and ii with Wannier-Boys functions
obtained from the self-consistent electronic solution. The re- duction energy calculated with the projector functions  de- pends linearly on the value of U. Most importantly, the re- duction energy obtained with the self-consistently calculated values of U, delivering the correct position of the gap state in the electronic structure, is 1.2 eV in LDA+U and 0.87 eV in GGA+U open circle in Fig. 2. These values are in substan- tially worse agreement with the available experimental data9 thin solid line in Fig. 2 than those calculated at the plain LDA and GGA levels. On the contrary, the reduction energy calculated with the Wannier-Boys orbitals
2.97 eV in
LDA+U and 2.36 eV in GGA+U is effectively independent on the specific value of U and, in the case of the GGA+U calculations, it is in reasonable agreement with the experi- mental value. The vacancy formation energies calculated in the bulk with the present pseudopotentials and with the Wannier-Boys projector functions are 6.74 eV LDA+U and 5.55 eV GGA+U. The GGA result is now in better agreement with experiment10 and with other GGA and GGA+U values 4.75.4 eV reported in the literature.11,12 In conclusion, we thank the authors of Ref. 2 for pointing out the need to improve with respect to our previous pseudo- potential description of reduced ceria. The study presented in this reply and prompted by Kresse et al. demonstrates thatwhile all-electron calculations are a benchmark for electronic structure calculationspseudopotentials remain an effective, accurate, and predictive tool when overlap ef- fects between core and valence charge densities are properly accounted for.
The authors gratefully acknowledge Dario Alf for useful discussions, CINECA, and INFM-CNR Progetto Calcolo Parallelo for computer resources.
1S. Fabris, S. de Gironcoli, S. Baroni, G. Vicario, and G. Balducci,
Phys. Rev. B 71, 041102R 2005.
2G. Kresse, P. Blaha, J. L. F. Da Silva, and M. V. Ganduglia-
Pirovano, preceding Comment, Phys. Rev. B 72, 237101 2005.
3S. G. Louie, S. Froyen, and M. L. Cohen, Phys. Rev. B 26, 1738
1982.
4M. Cococcioni and S. de Gironcoli, Phys. Rev. B 71, 035105
2005.
5D. R. Mullins, S. H. Overbury, and D. R. Huntley, Surf. Sci. 409,
307 1998.
6D. R. Mullins, P. V. Radulovic, and S. H. Overbury, Surf. Sci.
429, 186 1999.
7A. Pfau and K. D. Schierbaum, Surf. Sci. 321, 71 1994.
8M. A. Henderson, C. L. Perkins, M. H. Engelhard, S. The-
vuthasan, and C. H. F. Peden, Surf. Sci. 526, 1 2003.
9D. R. Lide, ed., CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics CRC,
Boca Raton, FL, 1993.
10Y.-M. Chiang, E. B. Lavik, and D. A. Blom, Nanostruct. Mater.
9, 663 1997.
11Z. Yang, T. K. Woo, M. Baudin, and K. Hermansson, J. Chem.
Phys. 120, 7741 2004.
12M. Nolan, S. Grigoleit, D. Sayle, S. C. Parker, and G. W. Watson,
Surf. Sci. 576, 217 2005.
FIG. 2. GGA+U reduction energy calculated with the atomic-
like functions  solid circles and with the Wannier-Boys functions
solid squares. Open symbols mark the GGA+U energies ob- tained with the calculated value of U=4.5 eV. The thin solid line indicates the experimental value.
COMMENTS
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 72, 237102 2005
237102-2


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 