<quotes>
2. Introduction
"In recent years, the development of cleaner burning fuels has been of very high priority. The trend towards improvement of air quality by reducing levels of tropospheric ozone, NOx and particulate matter has resulted in the proposal of stringent specifications on the aromatic and sulphur contents of gasoline and diesel fuel."
3. Results and discussion
"Catalysts supported on binary support show considerably higher catalytic activity in the reaction of toluene hydrogenation than those supported on silica. The bimetallic catalysts containing ca. 0.5 wt.% Pt are more active than related monometallic platinum catalysts, containing comparable amount of platinum."
4. Conclusions
"Catalysts supported on TiO2-SiO2 show considerably higher catalytic activity in the toluene hydrogenation than those supported on SiO2. Bimetallic Ni-Pt catalysts containing ca. 0.5 wt.% Pt are more active than related monometallic platinum catalysts, containing comparable amount of platinum."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The development of cleaner burning fuels has become a top priority due to efforts to improve air quality by reducing levels of tropospheric ozone, NOx, and particulate matter. This has led to strict regulations on the aromatic and sulfur contents of gasoline and diesel fuel.

2. Catalysts supported on a binary oxide display significantly higher catalytic activity in the toluene hydrogenation process compared to those supported on silica. Bimetallic catalysts containing approximately 0.5 wt.% of platinum exhibit greater activity than monometallic platinum catalysts with a similar amount of platinum.

3. Catalysts based on TiO2-SiO2 support show notably higher catalytic activity in the hydrogenation of toluene than those based on pure silica. Bimetallic Ni-Pt catalysts with about 0.5 wt.% of platinum are more active than equivalent monometallic platinum catalysts containing the same amount of platinum.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 近年来，清洁燃烧燃料的发展成为首要任务，这得益于减少大气中臭氧、NOx和颗粒物水平以改善空气质量的努力。这导致了对汽油和柴油燃料中芳香烃和硫含量的严格规定。

2. 在二氧化钛-二氧化硅复合支撑上制备的催化剂在苯乙烯氢化反应中的催化活性显著高于在纯二氧化硅上制备的催化剂。含约0.5 wt.%铂的双金属催化剂比相同铂含量的单金属铂催化剂更具活性。

3. 基于二氧化钛-二氧化硅复合物的催化剂在甲基环己烷合成反应中的催化活性明显高于基于纯二氧化硅的催化剂。含约0.5 wt.%铂的镍-铂双金属催化剂比具有相同铂含量的等效单金属铂催化剂更活跃。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
