<quotes>
1. "According to the World Wide Fuel Charter January 1999 specifications for the 20002005, the maximum of permissible total aromatic, polyaromatic and sulphur content of diesel fuel are 15 wt.%, 2.0 wt.% and 30 ppm, respectively."
2. "World Wide Fuel Charter and European automobile manufactures association (ACEA) [2] have proposed slightly different requirements from those expected by Auto Oil [3] and Comitee European de Normalisation (CEN) [4] , but the direction is the same."
3. "However, because noble metal catalysts are easily poisoned by small amounts of sulphur, the hydrodesulfurisation catalyst in the first stage reactor reduces the level of sulphur upto a few ppm."
4. "For example MAKFining dearomatisation technology (HDAr technology) is a two-step aromatics saturation process. Feedstock with sulphur levels upto 250 ppm can be treated with KF-200 catalyst in the HDAr section."
5. "The results obtained for benzene and toluene hydrogenation showed that hydrogenation activity was highly improved in the presence of F and Cl [12]."
6. "It was found that Ni/SiO2-TiO2 catalysts show higher dearomatisation activity in aromatics hydrogenation than nickel catalysts supported on silica, alumina, titania and alumina-titania."
7. "The aim of this work was to characterise the nature of the oxide precursors of some Ni, Pt and Ni-Pt catalysts supported on SiO2 and TiO2-SiO2, to investigate their susceptibility to reduction and activity in the reaction of toluene hydrogenation to methylcyclohexane."
8. "In Table 1 nominal and real (determined by ICP) composition of the catalysts and their BET surface area are given."
9. "In Fig. 1 XRD patterns of the catalysts calcined at the temperature 450 C supported on SiO2 (a) and TiO2-SiO2 (b), are presented."
10. "The monometallic nickel catalyst supported on SiO2 (Sample 1) is completely reduced in the temperature range 290580 C."
11. "Toluene conversion, as a function of reaction temperature up to 200 C over silica and silica-titania-supported nickel, platinum and bimetallic Ni-Pt catalysts is shown in Fig. 5."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The literature discusses the necessity of developing cleaner-burning fuels and meeting stringent specifications on aromatic and sulfur content in gasoline and diesel fuel. It highlights the importance of using hydrodesulfurization catalysts in the initial stage of refining processes to reduce sulfur content to a few ppm. The document also mentions the development of two-stage processes, such as MAKFining's HDAr technology, for treating feedstocks with sulfur levels up to 250 ppm. The presence of fluorine (F) and chlorine (Cl) is noted to significantly improve the hydrogenation activity of catalysts. The study focuses on characterizing the properties of Ni, Pt, and Ni-Pt catalysts supported on SiO2 and TiO2-SiO2 for toluene hydrogenation. The XRD patterns, BET surface areas, TPR profiles, and toluene conversion rates at various temperatures are analyzed to understand the catalysts' performance. The results indicate that bimetallic Ni-Pt catalysts containing approximately 0.5 wt.% Pt exhibit higher activity compared to related monometallic Pt catalysts with similar Pt content.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
文献讨论了开发更清洁燃烧燃料以及满足汽油和柴油燃料中芳香烃和硫含量严格规格的重要性。它强调了在精炼过程的初期使用脱硫催化剂以将硫含量降低至几ppm的必要性。文档还提到了MAKFining的HDAr技术等两阶段工艺的发展，用于处理硫含量高达250 ppm的原料。文献中提到氟（F）和氯（Cl）的存在可以显著提高催化剂的氢化活性。研究集中在对SiO2和TiO2-SiO2支持的Ni、Pt和Ni-Pt催化剂进行特性表征，以用于对甲苯的氢化。通过分析XRD模式、BET表面面积、TPR曲线和不同温度下的甲苯转化率，了解催化剂的性能。结果表明，含约0.5 wt.% Pt的双金属Ni-Pt催化剂在活性方面比具有相似Pt含量的相关单金属Pt催化剂更高。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
