Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process affect coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms, considering its impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization, and what are the implications of these effects on the overall process efficiency and performance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive effects and mechanisms of hydrogen cofeeding on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction dynamics in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio has a larger effect on propene selectivity than ethene, but propene selectivity stays above 95.5% even at high ratios. Lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne, supporting catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen curbs coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and decreasing polymerization likelihood. This increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but supported Pt nanoparticles' sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with lower propane concentrations exhibit enhanced selectivity per cycle, linking less graphitic coke to side reactions like cracking. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt's surface free of disordered coke, improving conversion and selectivity, reducing deactivation, and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, enhances alkene desorption, and improves reaction selectivity towards alkene production. This is achieved by raising the energy barrier for undesired cleavage steps more than for the initial reactions, suggesting that small hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity, and can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting metal coke levels. It weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, particularly affecting Peak II, indicating softer coke formation. It weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation. However, it has a limited effect on soft coke on the metal. Hydrogen alters reaction dynamics, suppressing coke precursors and reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio impacts propene formation differently than ethene, with propene selectivity remaining above 95.5% even at high ratios. Ga in the catalyst suppresses coke formation. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. Activity loss is smaller for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, and coke accumulation is greater for ethane. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, by competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface and reducing carbon species' surface coverage, thus inhibiting coke formation. This leads to increased stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with decreased coke deposition. Active sites initially inhibited by coke may be permanently affected by Pt nanoparticle sintering. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 leads to disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation, and selectively raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving alkene formation selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency. It prevents coke precursor formation, maintaining activity but doesn't remove existing coke. Hydrogen's efficiency in maintaining catalyst activity and preventing coke formation is crucial for process performance. It can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, supporting overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It increases the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing the rate of catalyst deactivation, with a weak effect on the metal. It decreases the total coke amount, particularly soft coke, by lowering propylene and propane pressures. Hydrogen promotes softer coke formation, evident by the shift of Peak II to lower temperatures. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct mechanisms for coke formation. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. The presence of hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation and reduces polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, affecting reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability and process efficiency. By maintaining a reducing atmosphere, hydrogen cofeeding could prevent the formation of coke precursors, reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, thus enhancing overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursors. Hydrogen's impact on propene formation is similar to ethene, but optimal ratios differ. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with higher H2/alkane ratios. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance similarly to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, more ordered graphite crystallites with fewer defects. This is achieved by hydrogen's competitive adsorption, reducing adsorbed carbon species and preventing coke formation. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts conversion and selectivity, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases crystallite size, correlating with decreased coke deposition. The presence of hydrogen leads to less disordered coke, covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, potentially extending catalyst lifetimes and enhancing overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving reaction selectivity. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, favoring alkene formation. This selectivity enhancement, along with reduced coke accumulation, boosts process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) suppresses coke formation and maintains catalyst activity, crucial for process efficiency. It prevents coke precursor formation and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, but cannot eliminate already formed coke. This dual role enhances catalyst stability and process performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support while acidity conversion from Lewis to Brnsted sites further minimizes coking. However, increased hydrogen partial pressure promotes coke graphitization, complicating coke removal. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, decreases catalyst deactivation, and promotes softer coke formation. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are influenced, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, improving catalyst stability and process efficiency. By maintaining a reducing atmosphere, it prevents coke precursor formation, potentially reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, thus enhancing overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene formation differently than ethene, with propene selectivity remaining above 95.5% even at high ratios. Catalysts containing Ga suppress coke formation, contributing to enhanced catalyst stability. The presence of hydrogen is crucial for minimizing coke accumulation, which is attributed to the ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces polymerization and coke buildup, increasing stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased conversion due to reduced coke deposition, observed by operando Raman spectroscopy. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may permanently disable them. Experiments at 25% and 50% propane concentration show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 leads to disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving conversion, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests small hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency and performance by enhancing alkene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity, and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen on Pt surfaces raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting metal coke levels. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a weak effect on the metal. It decreases the rate of coke formation by lowering propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke precursors, and reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen promotes softer coke formation on the support, evident by the shift of Peak II to lower temperatures. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with respect to propylene, 0.7 order with respect to hydrogen, and 1.4 order with respect to propane, indicating different reaction mechanisms for coke formation. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. However, it has a minimal effect on soft coke formation on the metal. The presence of hydrogen influences reaction mechanisms by reducing the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor in steam reforming, may suppress coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by preventing coke precursor formation. This contributes to improved process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's role in coke suppression at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. Lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. This is achieved through competitive adsorption, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The addition of hydrogen either increases defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but supported Pt nanoparticles' sintering may permanently disable these sites. Experiments with 25-50% propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High hydrogen concentrations promote more graphitic coke, covering the support, while low concentrations yield disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving conversion, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption, and raises the energy barrier for the third cleavage step more than the first two, potentially enhancing alkene selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process prevents coke precursor formation, maintaining catalyst activity and suppressing coke buildup. It's effective in removing reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. However, hydrogen does not remove coke already formed, highlighting its role in prevention rather than remediation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. On PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted sites, reducing coking. However, increased hydrogen pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, notably reducing Peak II, associated with support-formed coke, and promotes softer coke formation. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct mechanisms. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation. It minimally affects soft coke on the metal. Reaction mechanisms are influenced, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene formation differently than ethene, with propene selectivity staying above 95.5% even at high ratios. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane dehydrogenation than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. The loss in catalyst activity is smaller for ethane than propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts reduces coke formation, lowering the likelihood of carbon species polymerization. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, peaking at 75% propane concentration. Increased hydrogen concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy. The catalyst's active sites, initially inhibited by coke, may be permanently affected by sintering of Pt nanoparticles. Higher hydrogen levels favor the formation of more graphitic coke on the support, while lower levels yield disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing selectivity and conversion in consecutive cycles. These effects imply improved process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and enhances selectivity towards alkene formation by disproportionately raising the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step. This improves process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "In PDH, hydrogen cofeeding suppresses coke precursor formation, preventing coke buildup and maintaining catalyst activity. It's effective in maintaining activity but can't remove already formed coke. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in stabilizing the PDH process by reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing the energy barrier for deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting the metal, weakens support acidity by converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, and correlates positively with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke precursor formation, and converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. It weakly affects coke formation on the metal. The addition of hydrogen decreases total coke, mainly by reducing Peak II area, indicating softer coke formation. Hydrogen does not significantly impact soft coke on the metal but enhances catalyst stability by reducing hard coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially improving overall process performance. The literature does not explicitly discuss hydrogen's impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, or graphitization, but its role in coke suppression suggests benefits for catalyst longevity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little impact on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen curbs coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. This boosts catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle, linking less graphitic coke to reduced side reactions. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving overall PDH process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as per Quote 1, and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, as per Quote 2. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, as per Quote 3, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation, as per Quote 4. This improves overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity, and can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support while keeping metal coke levels stable, weakens support acidity by converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, and correlates positively with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by prolonging catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, decreasing the total coke amount, especially on the support, by promoting softer coke formation. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. It also lowers the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, affecting reaction dynamics. The apparent reaction order indicates coke can form from propane and propylene, with hydrogen influencing the process by decreasing the rate of coke formation on the support and altering the acidity of the support.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and improving overall process performance. The literature does not detail impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, or graphitization, but the inferred benefits on coke suppression and catalyst stability are significant.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio for propene differs. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne relative to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance by enhancing conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, potentially enhancing alkene selectivity. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can improve reaction selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, aiding in reversible coke removal through hydrogenation, which enhances process efficiency and stability by reducing coke and sustaining activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions, as confirmed by simulations. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting metal coke levels. It weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, decreases catalyst deactivation, and promotes softer coke formation at lower temperatures. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. It does not significantly affect soft coke on the metal. These effects enhance catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability and process efficiency. By maintaining a reducing atmosphere, hydrogen cofeeding could prevent coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. This leads to better catalyst longevity and overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little impact on alkene selectivity, which remains high. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursors. The effects on propene formation are similar to ethene, but optimal at different hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Hydrogen addition affects propene selectivity more than ethene, yet keeps it above 95.5%. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as it approaches equilibrium. Coke accumulation is higher for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It modifies coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on the catalyst surface, reducing carbon species coverage and coke formation. This decreases polymerization likelihood, enhancing catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may permanently disable them. Experiments with 25-50% propane show selectivity increases per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations foster more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 leads to disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "In the PDH process, hydrogen cofeeding suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It prevents the formation of coke precursors and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. However, hydrogen does not remove coke already formed, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role. This enhances process stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support without affecting the metal, weakens support acidity by converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, and correlates positively with coke graphitization, making coke removal harder due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursors, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen reduces hard coke formation by converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites. The reaction order of coking on the support is first order with propylene, 0.7 order with hydrogen, and 1.4 order with propane, indicating distinct reaction mechanisms. Hydrogen's presence weakens support acidity, decreasing hard coke formation, with minimal impact on soft coke on the metal. Reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of hydrogen also affects the rate and selectivity of propene formation, with the maximum occurring at a different hydrogen-to-propane ratio than for ethene. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The addition of Ga to the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, the formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a more ordered carbon structure with fewer defects. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle. Less graphitic coke suggests a connection between disordered coke and side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations foster more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 levels yield disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing dehydrogenation active sites. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and stability, reducing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption, and raises the energy barrier for the third cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing selectivity towards alkenes and improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance. This significantly boosts PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing the rate of catalyst deactivation. It decreases the propylene and propane pressures, promoting softer coke formation at lower temperatures. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. It also affects reaction mechanisms by suppressing coke precursor formation and reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, thereby enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) likely suppresses coke formation and enhances catalyst stability, akin to water vapor's effect. This contributes to a reducing atmosphere, preventing coke precursor formation, and potentially improving reaction dynamics. The suppression of coke formation by hydrogen cofeeding implies better process efficiency and performance through reduced catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, the rate of formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The loss in activity of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst is smaller for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, and coke accumulation is greater for ethane. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts reduces coke formation by limiting adsorbed carbon species, decreasing polymerization and coke buildup. This increases catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity, particularly on Pt-Sn/Al2O3, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke is confirmed by operando Raman spectroscopy, revealing less coke deposition and a shift towards more ordered carbon structures. The addition of hydrogen either increases defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases crystallite size, affecting coke's nature. Experiments show increased selectivity with each cycle at lower propane concentrations, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke forms, mainly on the support, while hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance by enhancing conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step, improving selectivity towards alkenes. This effect suggests that minor hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation process effectively suppresses coke formation and maintains catalyst activity by preventing the formation of coke precursors. It is particularly efficient in managing reversible coke through hydrogenation, which aids in sustaining the process efficiency. However, hydrogen does not remove coke that has already formed, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role. This has significant implications for enhancing the stability and efficiency of the PDH process by minimizing coke formation and ensuring sustained catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a weak effect on the metal. It reduces coke precursor formation and lowers the reaction order of coking on the support, influenced by propylene, hydrogen, and propane pressures. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation. It does not significantly affect soft coke on the metal. Reaction mechanisms are altered, suppressing coke precursors and affecting polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    