Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process affect coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms, considering its impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization, and what are the implications of these effects on the overall process efficiency and performance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive effects and mechanisms of hydrogen cofeeding on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction dynamics in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability, akin to water vapor's effect. This contributes to maintaining a reducing atmosphere, preventing coke precursor formation, and potentially improving reaction dynamics. Though specific impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization are not discussed, the inferred benefits could lead to reduced catalyst deactivation and regeneration, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by facilitating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little impact on alkene selectivity, which remains high. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen's effect on propene formation differs from ethene in terms of optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio, yet propene selectivity stays above 95.5%. Coke accumulation is less during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane, attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne. This results in better catalyst stability and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance similarly to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, by competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface and reducing carbon species' surface coverage, thus inhibiting coke formation. This leads to increased catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition decreases coke deposition, as observed by operando Raman spectroscopy, and promotes higher ordered carbon structures with fewer defects. The experiments show a strong increase in selectivity with 25 and 50% propane concentrations, linking less graphitic coke to reduced side reactions. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance by enhancing conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process effectively suppresses coke formation, thereby maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. However, it is ineffective in removing coke that has already formed. Hydrogen's preventive role is crucial for sustaining catalytic activity during the reaction, as it hinders the formation of coke precursors. It can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, contributing to the overall process efficiency. These effects significantly enhance the stability and efficiency of the PDH process by minimizing coke formation and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen on the Pt surface raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen's presence weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, and lowers hard coke formation. Reaction mechanisms are influenced, with hydrogen reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization. The apparent reaction order for coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating different formation pathways.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability, prolonging catalyst life and improving process efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs. The text suggests that hydrogen cofeeding could lead to better overall process performance through these mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by facilitating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. Crucially, hydrogen reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen cofeeding affects propene formation rates similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane dehydrogenation, is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, as observed by Raman spectroscopy. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on the catalyst surface, reducing carbon species adsorption and coke formation. This decreases polymerization likelihood, enhancing catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity, particularly at 75% propane concentration. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates higher carbon order with fewer defects. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Active sites initially inhibited by coke may be permanently affected by Pt nanoparticle sintering. Experiments at 25% and 50% propane concentration show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 leads to disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, improving selectivity for alkene formation. This enhances process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation process effectively suppresses coke formation and maintains catalyst activity, crucial for preventing deactivation. It notably prevents the formation of coke precursors, aiding in the maintenance of catalytic activity during the reaction. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. However, it does not remove coke that has already formed, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role. These effects significantly improve the stability and efficiency of the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation and lowers the total coke amount, particularly affecting Peak II, indicating softer coke formation. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation. It does not significantly impact soft coke on the metal. The reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability and process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. This could lead to better overall performance by prolonging catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition's effect on propene formation is qualitatively similar to ethene formation, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio for propene differs. Even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios, propene selectivity remains above 95.5%. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption by hydrogen suppresses coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition, as Raman spectroscopy reveals. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 levels yield disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance through enhanced conversion, selectivity, and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving alkene selectivity. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency and performance by favoring alkene formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It effectively prevents the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity during the reaction. However, hydrogen does not remove already formed coke. It can, however, remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, supporting overall process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in enhancing PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke accumulation on the catalyst support, alters support acidity, and affects coke graphitization, which complicates coke removal. These effects contribute to longer catalyst lifetimes and potentially higher propylene yields, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation and lowers catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, particularly soft coke on the support, and shifts its formation to lower temperatures. It converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening support acidity and reducing hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are altered, with hydrogen suppressing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could lead to better process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's role in coke suppression.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains high. Hydrogen's presence is critical in minimizing coke formation on catalysts through the hydrogenation of coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration nears equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, as observed by Raman spectroscopy. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen reduces carbon species surface coverage, decreasing coke formation. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts conversion and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane. Reduced coke deposition, detected by Raman spectroscopy, correlates with higher conversion. The presence of hydrogen leads to more graphitic coke, covering the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, reducing deactivation and potentially extending catalyst lifetimes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen atoms facilitate alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation, while raising the energy barrier for undesired cleavage steps, improving selectivity towards alkenes. This minor hydrogen addition boosts efficiency and performance by minimizing coke and maximizing desired product yield.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process effectively prevents coke formation and maintains catalyst activity, crucial for process efficiency. It suppresses coke precursor formation, aiding in reversible coke removal through hydrogenation, but does not remove coke once formed, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support without affecting the metal, weakens support acidity, and reduces coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, suppresses coke precursor formation, and reduces catalyst deactivation. It weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. The reaction order of coking on the support is first order with respect to propylene, 0.7 order with respect to hydrogen, and 1.4 order with respect to propane, indicating different reaction mechanisms for coke formation from propane and propylene. Hydrogen's presence reduces the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, affecting reaction dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio influences propene formation differently than ethene, with a larger effect on propene selectivity, which stays above 95.5% even at high ratios. Ga in the catalyst suppresses coke formation. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The loss in activity and coke accumulation is less for propane dehydrogenation than for ethane, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. This competitive adsorption reduces carbon species surface coverage, decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The D Raman band shift remains unexplained. Narrower Raman bands signify higher carbon order with fewer defects. H2 addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle. Less graphitic coke suggests a link between disordered coke and side reactions. H2 addition increases catalyst performance, decreases coke formation, and improves process efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, suggesting enhanced efficiency with minor hydrogen addition.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation process effectively prevents coke formation, thereby maintaining catalyst activity and process efficiency. It suppresses the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity during the reaction. However, hydrogen does not remove coke that has already formed. It can, however, eliminate reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing overall process performance. This highlights hydrogen's significant role in improving the stability and efficiency of the PDH process by controlling coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions, as simulations confirm. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with little effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging at higher temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It decreases propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke precursor formation and reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen promotes softer coke formation on the support, shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, and converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening support acidity and reducing hard coke formation. It has minimal impact on soft coke formation on the metal. Hydrogen influences reaction mechanisms by reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor in steam reforming, may suppress coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could improve process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's role in coke suppression.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke accumulation. Hydrogen addition qualitatively affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The loss in activity of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O is smaller for ethane than propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces the likelihood of carbon species polymerization into coke. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition, as observed by operando Raman spectroscopy. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, suggesting a connection between disordered coke and side reactions. In high H2 concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving reaction selectivity. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, favoring alkene formation. This adjustment could optimize the process efficiency and performance by increasing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process prevents coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and efficiency. It suppresses coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity during the reaction. Hydrogen does not remove already formed coke but can eliminate reversible coke through hydrogenation, supporting overall process performance. This enhances PDH process stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing the rate of catalyst deactivation. It decreases the formation of coke precursors and shifts the coke formation pattern to softer coke, as indicated by the shift of Peak II to lower temperatures. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, as it reduces the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization. The apparent reaction order of coking on the support is first order with respect to propylene, 0.7 order with respect to hydrogen, and 1.4 order with respect to propane, indicating different reaction pathways for coke formation from propane and propylene.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor, may suppress coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could improve process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, though specific impacts on energy barriers, coke patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization are not discussed. The inferred benefits of hydrogen cofeeding on coke suppression and catalyst longevity align with improved overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by facilitating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains high. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke buildup. Hydrogen addition's impact on propene formation is similar to ethene, but optimal ratios differ. Hydrogen-to-propane ratios have a greater effect on propene selectivity than ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5%. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne. These effects enhance catalyst stability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) boosts catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, enhancing propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts curbs coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and thus polymerization. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts conversion and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with decreased coke deposition. Graphitic coke predominates in high hydrogen concentrations, covering the catalyst support, while disordered coke forms in its absence, affecting Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. The presence of hydrogen raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, favoring alkene production over coke accumulation. This mechanism supports higher efficiency and performance in the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, aiding in reversible coke removal through hydrogenation, which enhances process efficiency and stability by reducing coke and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support while keeping metal coke stable, weakens support acidity by converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, and correlates positively with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging. These effects improve process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, decreases catalyst deactivation, and promotes softer coke formation at lower temperatures. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are influenced, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization. The rate of coke formation on the support is first-order with respect to propylene, 0.7 order with hydrogen, and 1.4 order with propane, indicating distinct reaction pathways.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The impact on propene formation is qualitatively similar to ethene formation, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Hydrogen addition has a larger effect on propene selectivity than ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, by competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, reducing carbon species and coke formation. This leads to increased stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The decrease in coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, correlates with higher conversion rates. Hydrogen's role in maintaining active sites free from coke enhances dehydrogenation efficiency. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance, reducing catalyst deactivation and potentially extending lifetimes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation, as per quote [2]. Hydrogen raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, as noted in quote [3], improving selectivity towards alkenes. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can optimize PDH efficiency and performance, aligning with quote [4].", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process prevents coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and efficiency. It suppresses coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity during the reaction. While hydrogen doesn't remove existing coke, it can eliminate reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process stability and efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH process performance by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation and reduces catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen reduces the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct mechanisms. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation. It minimally affects soft coke on the metal. Hydrogen influences reaction mechanisms, lowering polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance. The text suggests that hydrogen cofeeding could have similar effects on energy barriers, coke accumulation, acid site conversions, and graphitization, leading to better overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition's effect on propene formation is qualitatively similar to ethene formation, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio for propene differs. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen reduces adsorbed carbon species, hindering coke formation. This decreases polymerization likelihood, enhancing catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity, particularly on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts. Optimal performance is achieved at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Active sites initially inhibited by coke may be permanently affected by Pt nanoparticle sintering. Experiments with 25-50% propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations foster more graphitic coke on the support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves PDH efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but does not remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting metal coke levels. It weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke formation. It converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening support acidity and reducing hard coke formation. Reaction mechanisms are influenced, with hydrogen suppressing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This could improve process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, although specific impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization are not discussed. The inference is that hydrogen cofeeding could lead to better catalyst longevity and process outcomes by mitigating coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio impacts propene formation differently than ethene, with a larger effect on propene selectivity, yet it remains above 95.5%. Ga in the catalyst suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration nears equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with rising H2/alkane ratio. Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O shows less activity loss with ethane than propane dehydrogenation. Coke accumulation is higher with ethane than propane, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to the addition of Sn, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. This transformation is attributed to hydrogen's capability to suppress coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and thus decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The increase in PDH conversion with higher H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, as confirmed by operando Raman spectroscopy. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but supported Pt nanoparticles' sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25% and 50% propane concentrations exhibit enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, hinting at a connection between disordered coke and side reactions like cracking. In high H2 concentrations, more graphitic coke forms, primarily covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, more disordered coke appears on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt's surface free of disordered coke species, crucial for improved conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process effectively prevents coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and stability. It suppresses the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity during the reaction. However, hydrogen does not remove coke already formed on the catalyst. It can, however, remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing overall process efficiency. These effects significantly improve the PDH process's stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted sites, reducing coking. Graphitization of coke correlates with hydrogen pressure, making coke removal harder due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing the rate of catalyst deactivation. It decreases the formation of coke precursors and the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which reduces the formation of hard coke. The addition of hydrogen greatly suppresses coke formation, particularly on the support, by decreasing the area of Peak II, which corresponds to softer coke. This has implications for improved catalyst stability and reaction dynamics in the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability and process efficiency. By maintaining a reducing atmosphere, hydrogen cofeeding could prevent the formation of coke precursors, reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. This leads to better overall process performance by prolonging catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) boosts alkene formation, primarily by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio influences propene selectivity more than ethene selectivity, yet propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high ratios. Coke accumulation is less during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage and polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, peaking at 75% propane concentration. Increased hydrogen concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy. The catalyst's active sites, initially inhibited by coke, may become permanently inactive due to Pt nanoparticle sintering. Higher hydrogen levels favor graphitic coke formation on the support, while disordered coke forms in its absence, impacting Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. These effects optimize PDH efficiency and performance, increasing conversion and selectivity while mitigating catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and facilitates alkene desorption, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing reaction selectivity. This can improve overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation process effectively prevents coke formation and maintains catalyst activity, crucial for process efficiency. It suppresses coke precursor formation, aiding in reversible coke removal through hydrogenation, but does not eliminate already formed coke. This enhances catalyst stability and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability. It raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with little effect on metal coke. In hydrogen atmosphere, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve catalyst longevity and propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, suppresses coke precursor formation, and reduces catalyst deactivation. It promotes softer coke formation, indicated by the shift of Peak II to lower temperatures. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. The presence of hydrogen does not significantly affect soft coke formation on the metal. Reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, reducing the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    