Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process affect coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms, considering its impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization, and what are the implications of these effects on the overall process efficiency and performance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive effects and mechanisms of hydrogen cofeeding on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction dynamics in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor, may suppress coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency. By maintaining a reducing atmosphere, it prevents coke precursor formation, potentially improving process performance through reduced catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. This leads to better catalyst longevity and overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen's impact on propene formation is similar to ethene, but optimal ratios differ. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. This affects catalyst stability and reaction dynamics, with lower activity loss for ethane dehydrogenation over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption by hydrogen reduces surface coverage of carbon species, decreasing coke formation. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve, especially at 75% propane concentration. Increased hydrogen concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, as observed by Raman spectroscopy. More graphitic coke forms in high hydrogen concentrations, covering the support, while disordered coke is prevalent without hydrogen, affecting Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing active sites for dehydrogenation. These effects lead to improved conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, with potential for longer lifetimes and reduced deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption, and raises the energy barrier for the third cleavage step, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency. It prevents coke precursor formation, maintaining activity but doesn't remove existing coke. Hydrogen removes reversible coke via hydrogenation, crucial for sustaining process performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It increases the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. Graphitization of coke correlates with hydrogen pressure, making coke removal harder due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen reduces the total coke amount, especially on the support, forming softer coke at lower temperatures. The reaction order for coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct mechanisms. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation. It has a lesser impact on soft coke on the metal. Hydrogen influences reaction mechanisms, suppressing coke precursors and lowering polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio for propene differs. Propene selectivity is slightly more affected by the hydrogen-to-propane ratio than ethene selectivity but remains above 95.5%. Lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces the likelihood of carbon species polymerization and coke buildup. Hydrogen increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The shift in D Raman band position is unexplained, but narrowed bands indicate higher carbon order. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, enhancing propane dehydrogenation conversion. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates this process over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance by enhancing alkene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with little effect on metal coke. Hydrogen converts Lewis acid sites to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. Graphitization of coke correlates with hydrogen pressure, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke. It converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening support acidity and reducing hard coke formation. Hydrogen's impact on reaction mechanisms includes the suppression of coke precursors and lowering polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor in steam reforming, may suppress coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could lead to improved process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from the effect of water vapor on coke suppression.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation differently than ethene, with a greater impact on propene selectivity, which remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Coke accumulation is less during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It modifies coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Hydrogen competes for adsorption on the catalyst surface, reducing carbon species coverage and coke formation. This leads to increased catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The decrease in coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, correlates with higher conversion. Hydrogen's presence results in more graphitic coke covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing dehydrogenation active sites. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance by increasing conversion and selectivity, reducing catalyst deactivation, and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, improving alkene formation selectivity. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's efficient in preventing coke precursor formation but doesn't remove existing coke. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting metal coke levels. It weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. Graphitization of coke correlates with hydrogen pressure, making coke removal harder due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke precursors, and converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites. It weakly affects coke formation on the metal. The presence of hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, particularly soft coke on the support, and shifts its formation to lower temperatures. The reaction order of coking on the support is first order with propylene, 0.7 order with hydrogen, and 1.4 order with propane, indicating distinct reaction mechanisms for coke formation from propane and propylene. Hydrogen's role in reducing hard coke formation and its minimal effect on soft coke on the metal are key to understanding its impact on catalyst stability and reaction dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation and improve catalyst stability, akin to water vapor's effect. This could maintain a reducing atmosphere, preventing coke precursor formation, and potentially impacting reaction dynamics. The suppression of coke formation would enhance catalyst stability, prolonging its life and improving process efficiency and performance by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation via hydrogenation of coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen addition impacts propene formation differently than ethene, with propene selectivity remaining above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, as observed by Raman spectroscopy. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on the catalyst surface, reducing carbon species adsorption and coke formation. This leads to increased stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a more ordered carbon structure with fewer defects. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, enhancing propane dehydrogenation conversion. Initially, active sites are inhibited by coke, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as evidenced by its role in facilitating alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation. It selectively raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing alkene selectivity. This suggests that minor hydrogen additions can improve process efficiency by favoring alkene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's ineffective in removing already formed coke but excels in preventing precursor formation. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This cofeeding significantly boosts PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It increases the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke accumulation on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. In a hydrogen atmosphere, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, while its effect on the metal is minimal. It suppresses coke precursor formation and shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke formation. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio influences propene formation and selectivity, with the latter staying above 95.5% even at high ratios. Ga in the catalyst suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O shows less activity loss with propane than with ethane dehydrogenation, and coke accumulation is greater for ethane. Lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption by hydrogen reduces surface coverage of carbon species, hindering coke formation. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts conversion by decreasing coke deposition, as Raman spectroscopy confirms. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's presence leads to more graphitic coke on the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing active sites for dehydrogenation. These effects contribute to increased conversion, selectivity, and reduced catalyst deactivation, improving overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption, and enhances selectivity towards alkene formation. Its presence lowers coke accumulation, aids alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation, and raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, improving overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process prevents coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and efficiency. It suppresses coke precursor formation and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, but cannot eliminate already formed coke. This enhances process stability and efficiency by reducing coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors, as per quote [1]. Computational evidence, as in quote [2], shows hydrogen adsorption on Pt surfaces raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. Hydrogen decreases coke accumulation on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke amounts. In a hydrogen atmosphere, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking, as stated in quote [4]. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging, as explained in quotes [8] and [9]. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing catalyst deactivation. It decreases the formation of hard coke by weakening the acidity of the support and converting acid sites, while not significantly affecting soft coke on the metal. Hydrogen reduces the total coke amount, especially Peak II, indicating softer coke formation. It also suppresses coke precursors and lowers polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, affecting reaction dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and improving process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation, particularly by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, while having a negligible effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts through the hydrogenation of coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene selectivity more than ethene selectivity, yet propene selectivity stays above 95.5% even at high ratios. Coke accumulation is less during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, as observed by Raman spectroscopy. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on the catalyst surface, reducing carbon species adsorption, thus suppressing coke formation. This leads to increased stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The decrease in coke deposition, detected by Raman spectroscopy, correlates with higher conversion rates. Hydrogen's presence results in more graphitic coke, covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure with fewer defects. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance by enhancing conversion and selectivity, reducing catalyst deactivation, and potentially extending catalyst lifetimes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates this process over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can enhance reaction selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. However, it doesn't remove already formed coke, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting metal coke levels. It weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation and lowers catalyst deactivation rates. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, particularly soft coke on the support, and shifts its formation to lower temperatures. It converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation. Hydrogen's impact on reaction mechanisms includes the suppression of coke precursors and the reduction of polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, without significantly affecting soft coke on the metal.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability by preventing coke precursor formation. This contributes to better process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, thus prolonging catalyst life and enhancing overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts through hydrogenation of coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene selectivity more than ethene selectivity, but propene selectivity remains above 95.5%. Lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. This competitive adsorption reduces carbon species surface coverage, decreasing coke likelihood. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts conversion and selectivity, with optimal performance at 75% propane. Raman spectroscopy reveals a shift in coke nature, indicating higher ordered carbon structures. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Higher hydrogen levels correlate with reduced coke deposition, enhancing conversion. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, linking disordered coke to side reactions. High hydrogen concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low hydrogen favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving overall process efficiency and performance by increasing conversion, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as per Quote 1, and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, as per Quote 2. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, as per Quote 4, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "In the PDH process, hydrogen cofeeding prevents coke formation, thereby maintaining catalyst activity and efficiency. It effectively suppresses the formation of coke precursors and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, but cannot eliminate coke already deposited on the catalyst. This dual action of hydrogen enhances process stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It increases the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing catalyst deactivation. It decreases the formation of hard coke by converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, while having a minimal effect on soft coke formation on the metal. Hydrogen reduces the formation of coke precursors and lowers the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, affecting reaction dynamics. The decrease in total coke is mainly due to reduced Peak II area, indicating softer coke formation on the support as hydrogen pressure increases.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation and improve catalyst stability, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures. This could maintain a reducing atmosphere, preventing coke precursor formation, and potentially impacting energy barriers and coke accumulation patterns. By reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, process efficiency and performance are likely enhanced.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio influences propene formation differently than ethene, with a larger effect on propene selectivity, yet it remains above 95.5%. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, the formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The activity loss and coke accumulation are less for propane dehydrogenation than for ethane, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen curbs coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and decreasing polymerization likelihood. This boosts catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Experiments with 25-50% propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, implicating disordered coke in side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt's surface free of disordered coke, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency and performance by enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "In the PDH process, hydrogen cofeeding suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's effective in preventing coke precursor formation but doesn't remove existing coke. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This cofeeding significantly boosts PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with little change on the metal. In hydrogen, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. Graphitization of coke correlates with hydrogen pressure, making coke removal harder due to higher combustion temperatures, affecting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal, by suppressing coke precursors and decreasing propylene and propane pressures. It promotes softer coke formation, evident by the shift of Peak II to lower temperatures. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. It does not significantly affect soft coke on the metal. The reaction mechanisms are altered, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could lead to better process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as suppressing coke formation prolongs catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of hydrogen also affects the rate and selectivity of propene formation, with the maximum occurring at a different hydrogen-to-propane ratio than for ethene. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The loss in activity and coke accumulation with time on stream is less for propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to the addition of Sn, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen curbs coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, which lessens their likelihood to polymerize into coke. This increases catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either boosts defects in the graphitic lattice or shrinks graphitic crystallites, correlating with increased propane dehydrogenation conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but supported Pt nanoparticles' sintering may permanently disable these sites. Experiments with 25-50% propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, hinting at a connection between disordered coke and side reactions like cracking. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke forms, mainly covering the catalyst support, while hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species. These hydrogen effects on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms improve process efficiency and performance by boosting conversion and selectivity, reducing catalyst deactivation, and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, improving alkene selectivity. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency by favoring alkene formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but it doesn't remove existing coke. Its effectiveness in preventing coke precursors supports catalytic activity during the reaction. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance. This highlights hydrogen's role in improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen on Pt surfaces raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, suppresses coke precursor formation, and reduces catalyst deactivation. It promotes softer coke formation and shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. The presence of hydrogen does not significantly affect soft coke formation on the metal but decreases the total coke amount, mainly by reducing Peak II area. Reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by facilitating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little impact on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but optimal ratios differ. Selectivity to propene remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. As alkene concentration nears equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts reduces coke formation, lowering carbon species surface coverage and polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, peaking at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's role in decreasing coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy, correlates with increased conversion. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a more ordered carbon structure. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Experiments show increased selectivity with 25-50% propane, linking less graphitic coke to reduced side reactions. High H2 concentrations favor graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 promotes disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surface free of disordered coke, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. These effects optimize process efficiency and performance, reducing catalyst deactivation and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. It facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation and raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, improving selectivity towards alkenes. This boosts process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's ineffective at removing pre-existing coke but excels at preventing precursor formation. Hydrogen removes reversible coke, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's crucial role in sustaining PDH process stability and efficiency by minimizing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support while keeping metal coke stable, weakens support acidity by converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, and correlates positively with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by prolonging catalyst lifetimes and potentially boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a weak effect on the metal, by reducing propylene and propane pressures. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation, and shifts coke formation to softer types. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, and affects reaction mechanisms, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could lead to better process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as suppressing coke formation enhances catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. Crucially, hydrogen reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The impact on propene formation is similar to ethene formation, but with a different optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio. Hydrogen addition has a larger effect on propene selectivity than ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5%. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. This lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation contributes to better catalyst stability and higher process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen curbs coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, thus decreasing polymerization and coke buildup. This increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts. Hydrogen's role in altering coke's nature and suppressing its formation is pivotal for improved PDH process efficiency and performance, leading to higher conversion and selectivity, reduced catalyst deactivation, and enhanced stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but does not remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and maintaining activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen on the Pt surface raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. In hydrogen atmosphere, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, reducing catalyst deactivation. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct mechanisms. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, decreasing hard coke formation, with minimal impact on soft coke on the metal. The presence of hydrogen promotes softer coke on the support and lowers its formation temperature.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    