Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process affect coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms, considering its impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization, and what are the implications of these effects on the overall process efficiency and performance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive effects and mechanisms of hydrogen cofeeding on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction dynamics in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene formation differently than ethene, with a greater impact on propene selectivity, yet it remains above 95.5%. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen cofeeding's effect on energy barriers, coke patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization is not discussed. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with rising H2/alkane ratio. Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O shows less activity loss with propane than ethane dehydrogenation. Coke accumulation is higher for ethane, with carbon deposition far exceeding exposed Pt atoms. Lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on the catalyst surface reduces carbon species, hindering coke formation. This decreases coke deposition, as confirmed by Raman spectroscopy, and increases conversion and selectivity, especially at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's presence leads to more graphitic coke on the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure. These effects improve catalyst stability and efficiency, reducing deactivation and enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation, raising the energy barrier for undesired cleavage more than for desired steps. This improves selectivity towards alkenes, optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation process prevents coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and efficiency. It suppresses coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity during the reaction. Hydrogen is effective in preventing coke but doesn't remove already formed coke, except for reversible coke through hydrogenation. This enhances process stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, increased hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation and decreases catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, notably reducing Peak II, indicating softer coke formation. It weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, and decreases hard coke formation. Reaction mechanisms are influenced, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, thereby improving catalyst stability. This contributes to a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation, potentially enhancing process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little impact on alkene selectivity, which remains high. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts through the hydrogenation of coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation differently than ethene, with selectivity to propene remaining above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the product concentration approaches equilibrium. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve, especially at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, as Raman spectroscopy reveals. Graphitic coke predominates in high H2 environments, covering the support and keeping Pt surfaces free of disordered coke. These effects lead to enhanced conversion, selectivity, and catalyst longevity, optimizing PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, potentially increasing efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke via hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It reduces coke precursor formation, lowering catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke formation, especially on the support, and promotes softer coke. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct reaction mechanisms. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation without significantly affecting soft coke on the metal. It influences reaction mechanisms by suppressing coke precursors and reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor in steam reforming, may suppress coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by preventing coke precursor formation. This contributes to improved process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's role in coke suppression.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. Crucially, hydrogen reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen cofeeding's impact on propene selectivity is more significant than on ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, as observed by Raman spectroscopy. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on the catalyst surface, reducing coke formation and improving conversion and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, especially at 75% propane concentration. The decrease in coke deposition, detected by Raman spectroscopy, correlates with increased conversion. The presence of hydrogen leads to more graphitic coke covering the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in keeping Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates this process over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can enhance reaction selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity and enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke accumulation on the support without significantly affecting the metal, while converting Lewis acid sites to Brnsted acid sites, which reduces coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, weakly affecting the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen reduces hard coke formation by weakening the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites. The reaction order of coking on the support is first order with propylene, 0.7 order with hydrogen, and 1.4 order with propane, indicating distinct mechanisms for coke formation. Hydrogen's impact is more significant on the support than on the metal for soft coke.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio impacts propene formation differently than ethene, with a larger effect on propene selectivity, yet it remains above 95.5%. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. As alkene concentration nears equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with rising H2/alkane ratio. Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O shows less activity loss with propane than ethane dehydrogenation, and coke accumulation is higher for ethane. Lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces the likelihood of carbon species polymerization and coke formation. Hydrogen increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure with fewer defects. The increase in PDH conversion with higher H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition. Initially, active sites are inhibited by coke, but sintering of supported Pt nanoparticles may permanently inhibit these sites. Experiments with lower propane concentrations show increased selectivity per cycle, linking less disordered coke to reduced side reactions. In high H2 concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and facilitates alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom lowers the energy barrier for alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy of the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can improve reaction selectivity and overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity maintenance. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance. This significantly boosts PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the area of Peak II, indicating softer coke formation. It converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening support acidity and reducing hard coke formation. However, hydrogen's effect on soft coke on the metal is minimal. The reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could lead to better process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from the literature on water vapor's role in coke suppression.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by facilitating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The effects on propene formation are similar to ethene formation, but optimal at a different hydrogen-to-propane ratio. Hydrogen's presence is crucial for maintaining high propene selectivity, even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It modifies coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, by competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface and reducing carbon species' surface coverage, thus inhibiting coke formation. This leads to increased stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases crystallite size, correlating with decreased coke deposition detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. Active sites initially inhibited by coke may be permanently affected by sintering of supported Pt nanoparticles. Experiments with 25-50% propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, suggesting a link between disordered coke and side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving conversion, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption, and enhances selectivity towards alkene production. By raising the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, small hydrogen additions improve reaction selectivity, boosting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity, and can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen on the Pt surface raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation, decreases catalyst deactivation, and promotes softer coke formation at lower temperatures. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. It also reduces the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, impacting reaction dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, thereby improving catalyst stability and process efficiency. This suppression could lead to reduced catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, enhancing overall performance. The potential impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization are not explicitly discussed but are implied to be positive.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The literature lacks specifics on energy barriers, coke patterns, acid site conversions, graphitization, and their process implications. Ga in the catalyst suppresses coke formation. Compared to ethane dehydrogenation, propane dehydrogenation exhibits lower coke formation and higher selectivity to propene, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The loss in catalyst activity is less for ethane than propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces the likelihood of carbon species polymerization and coke formation. Hydrogen boosts catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The increase in PDH conversion with higher H2 concentration is due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may permanently deactivate them. Experiments at 25% and 50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance by enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's effective against coke precursors but doesn't remove established coke. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in sustaining catalyst stability and process performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke accumulation on the support, with minimal effect on metal surfaces, and weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites. However, increased hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by prolonging catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a weak effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation and reduces catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen reduces the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke formation. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct reaction mechanisms. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation. It minimally affects soft coke on the metal. Hydrogen influences reaction mechanisms, suppressing coke precursors and reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially improving overall process performance. The literature does not detail impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, or graphitization, but the inferred benefits on catalyst longevity and process efficiency are significant.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation via hydrogenation of coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene selectivity more than ethene, yet propene selectivity remains above 95.5%. Lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces the likelihood of carbon species polymerization and coke formation. Hydrogen increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The presence of hydrogen leads to less coke deposition, as observed by operando Raman spectroscopy, and promotes higher ordered carbon structures with fewer defects. The addition of hydrogen either increases defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases crystallite size, enhancing conversion with increasing hydrogen concentration. Initially, active sites are inhibited by coke, but supported Pt nanoparticles' sintering may permanently inhibit these sites. Experiments with 25-50% propane concentrations show increased selectivity per cycle, linking less disordered coke to reduced side reactions. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the catalyst support, while hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates this process over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity for alkene formation. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency and performance by enhancing alkene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but does not remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting the metal. In hydrogen atmosphere, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support by reducing propylene and propane pressures, decreasing catalyst deactivation. It promotes softer coke formation and reduces hard coke by converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites. Hydrogen weakly affects coke on the metal, not significantly impacting soft coke formation. It reduces coke precursor formation and lowers polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, enhancing catalyst stability and reaction dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability and process efficiency. By maintaining a reducing atmosphere, hydrogen cofeeding could prevent coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, thus enhancing overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation rates differently than ethene, with the maximum occurring at a distinct hydrogen-to-propane ratio. The selectivity to propene is more influenced by the hydrogen-to-propane ratio than ethene, yet remains above 95.5% even at high ratios. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Coke accumulation and activity loss are less pronounced in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, by competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface and reducing carbon species, thus suppressing coke formation. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts conversion and selectivity, with optimal performance at 75% propane. The decrease in coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, correlates with higher conversion. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but sintering of Pt nanoparticles may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with lower propane concentrations show increased selectivity per cycle, linking less disordered coke to reduced side reactions. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving reaction selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation, while selectively raising the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, favoring alkene formation. This selectivity enhancement suggests that minor hydrogen additions can boost PDH efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove formed coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity, and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing catalyst deactivation. It decreases the formation of coke precursors and shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke formation. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. It has a minor effect on soft coke formation on the metal. The presence of hydrogen reduces the total coke amount, mainly by decreasing Peak II area, and influences reaction mechanisms by lowering polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and improving overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts through hydrogenation of coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition qualitatively affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the maximum propene formation occurs at a different hydrogen-to-propane ratio. The propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at the highest hydrogen-to-propane ratio. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and thus polymerization. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts conversion and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane. Raman spectroscopy reveals hydrogen's role in altering coke's nature, correlating with higher ordered carbon structures and fewer defects. The addition of hydrogen either increases defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases crystallite size, impacting coke deposition. Enhanced conversion with higher hydrogen concentration is linked to reduced coke formation. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with lower propane concentrations show increased selectivity per cycle, suggesting a connection between disordered coke and side reactions like cracking. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as per Quote 1, and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, as per Quote 2. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, as per Quotes 3 and 4, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves overall PDH efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation and maintains catalyst activity, crucial for process efficiency. It prevents coke precursor formation, maintaining activity during reaction, and removes reversible coke via hydrogenation. However, it doesn't remove already formed coke, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It increases the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, increased hydrogen pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It reduces coke precursor formation, lowers catalyst deactivation, and shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke formation. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, showing different mechanisms for coke formation. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation without significantly affecting soft coke on the metal. It also reduces polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability and process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. This inference is based on literature suggesting water vapor's role in coke suppression, implying hydrogen cofeeding could have similar benefits, leading to enhanced catalyst longevity and overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition qualitatively affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. The selectivity to propene is minimally impacted by hydrogen-to-propane ratios, staying above 95.5%. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The literature does not detail hydrogen cofeeding's impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, graphitization, or overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, as observed by operando Raman spectroscopy. Hydrogen suppresses coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, especially at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, as thermogravimetric analysis reveals. More graphitic coke forms in high H2 concentrations, covering the catalyst support, while disordered coke forms in its absence, affecting Pt nanoparticles. H2 maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. These effects lead to improved conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, impacting overall PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption, and enhances selectivity towards alkene production, improving process efficiency. Adsorbed hydrogen atoms lower coke buildup and favor alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation. By disproportionately raising the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step, hydrogen boosts alkene selectivity, optimizing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation and maintains catalyst activity by preventing coke precursor buildup. It's effective against reversible coke through hydrogenation but can't remove already formed coke. This enhances process efficiency and stability by reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. It decreases coke accumulation on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke levels. In a hydrogen atmosphere, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal, by decreasing propylene and propane pressures. It suppresses coke precursor formation and reduces catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen promotes softer coke formation on the support, shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, and weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites. This decreases hard coke formation but has a minimal effect on soft coke on the metal. Reaction mechanisms are influenced as hydrogen reduces polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, thereby improving catalyst stability and reducing catalyst deactivation. This contributes to better process efficiency and performance by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. The implication is prolonged catalyst life and reduced regeneration needs, enhancing overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio impacts propene formation differently than ethene, with a greater effect on propene selectivity, which remains above 95.5%. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as it approaches equilibrium. Activity loss is smaller for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, with more coke accumulation in ethane. Lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage and polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. The presence of hydrogen leads to more graphitic coke covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing active sites for dehydrogenation. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, potentially extending lifetimes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving reaction selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation, while selectively raising the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, favoring alkene formation. This selectivity enhancement by hydrogen addition boosts process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity, and can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support without affecting the metal, weakens support acidity, and promotes coke graphitization, which complicates coke removal. These effects improve catalyst longevity and propylene yields, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing catalyst deactivation. It decreases the formation of coke precursors and the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which reduces the rate of coke formation. The addition of hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, mainly by reducing the area of Peak II, associated with support-formed coke, promoting softer coke formation at lower temperatures. This indicates that hydrogen cofeeding affects coke formation and catalyst stability by altering coke precursor formation and reducing hard coke formation on the support.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    