Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process affect coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms, considering its impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization, and what are the implications of these effects on the overall process efficiency and performance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive effects and mechanisms of hydrogen cofeeding on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction dynamics in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could enhance process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's impact on coke suppression.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, the rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to adding Sn, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, which lessens polymerization and coke formation. This increases catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The increase in PDH conversion with higher H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. Hydrogen assists in maintaining the Pt surface free of disordered coke species, leading to improved conversion and selectivity, reduced catalyst deactivation, and enhanced stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation, enhances alkene desorption, and raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage steps, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This effect, observed in the presence of adsorbed hydrogen atoms, suggests that small hydrogen additions can significantly boost process efficiency and performance by favoring desired reactions over coke-producing pathways.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It prevents the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. However, it does not remove already formed coke, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen on the Pt surface increases the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke accumulation on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke levels. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation and decreases catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the rate of coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, promoting softer coke formation. The presence of hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. However, hydrogen's effect on soft coke on the metal is minimal. The reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor in steam reforming, may suppress coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could improve process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's role in coke suppression. The literature does not explicitly discuss hydrogen cofeeding's impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, or graphitization, but its potential to reduce coke formation suggests benefits for catalyst longevity and overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption by hydrogen suppresses coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, reducing carbon species' surface coverage and polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, as observed by operando Raman spectroscopy. The presence of hydrogen leads to more graphitic coke covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing catalyst efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as per Quote 1, and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, as per Quote 2. It selectively raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, as per Quotes 3 and 4, enhancing alkene selectivity. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can improve PDH efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation suppresses coke formation, preserving catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's ineffective in removing existing coke but excels in preventing precursor formation. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This strategy significantly boosts PDH stability and efficiency by minimizing coke and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke precursor formation, and converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. It has a minor effect on coke formation on the metal. Hydrogen addition significantly decreases total coke, shifting Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke formation. Catalyst stability is enhanced as hydrogen prevents excessive coke buildup, though it doesn't remove existing coke. Reaction dynamics are altered, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects the rate and selectivity of propene formation, with selectivity remaining above 95.5% even at high ratios. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, as observed by operando Raman spectroscopy. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on Pt-based catalysts, reducing carbon species surface coverage, thus suppressing coke formation. Increased hydrogen concentration correlates with higher conversion and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Enhanced conversion with higher H2 concentration is linked to reduced coke deposition. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may permanently deactivate them. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 leads to disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption, and enhances selectivity towards alkene production. It raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, improving efficiency. Small hydrogen additions can significantly boost alkene selectivity, optimizing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity, and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting metal coke levels. It weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing catalyst deactivation. It shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke formation. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. It also decreases the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, affecting reaction dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This could improve process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's role in suppressing coke.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of hydrogen also affects the rate and selectivity of propene formation, with the maximum occurring at a different hydrogen-to-propane ratio than for ethene. Selectivity to propene is slightly more affected by the hydrogen-to-propane ratio than ethene, but remains above 95.5%. The addition of Ga to the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to the addition of Sn, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on the catalyst surface, reducing carbon species coverage and coke formation. This leads to increased catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity, particularly on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure with fewer defects. Hydrogen either increases defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases crystallite size. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, active sites are inhibited by coke, but supported Pt nanoparticles' sintering may permanently inhibit these sites. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations favor graphitic coke on the support, while disordered coke forms in its absence, affecting Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests small hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process effectively prevents coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and stability. It suppresses the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity during the reaction. However, hydrogen does not remove coke already formed on the catalyst. It can, however, remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, supporting overall process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in enhancing PDH process stability and efficiency by minimizing coke formation and preserving catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen converts Lewis acid sites to Brnsted sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, weakly affecting the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, reducing catalyst deactivation, with a first-order reaction for propylene, 0.7 for hydrogen, and 1.4 for propane, indicating distinct mechanisms. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis sites, reducing hard coke formation, while not significantly impacting soft coke on the metal. The presence of hydrogen decreases the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, influencing reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could lead to better process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from the literature.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by facilitating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation differently than ethene, with the maximum occurring at a distinct hydrogen-to-propane ratio. The selectivity to propene is slightly more affected by the hydrogen-to-propane ratio than ethene, yet remains above 95.5%. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition, as Raman spectroscopy reveals. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations foster more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 levels yield disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance by enhancing conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. It facilitates alkene desorption and raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving alkene selectivity. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance by favoring alkene formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It prevents the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. However, it does not remove coke already formed, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role in coke management.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions, as confirmed by simulations. It decreases coke on the support while keeping metal coke levels stable, weakens support acidity, and promotes graphitization, which complicates coke removal. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation and lowers catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct mechanisms. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation without significantly affecting soft coke on the metal. It influences reaction mechanisms by reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that hinders coke precursor formation. This contributes to improved catalyst stability and reduced catalyst deactivation, potentially enhancing process efficiency and performance by prolonging catalyst life. The literature does not explicitly discuss energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, or graphitization, but the inferred benefits on coke suppression and catalyst stability are significant for process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene selectivity, which remains above 95.5% even at high ratios. Lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to the addition of Sn, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on the catalyst surface suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species polymerization. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, especially at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition decreases coke deposition, as observed by operando Raman spectroscopy. The experiments with 25 and 50% propane concentrations show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High hydrogen concentrations favor more graphitic coke on the support, while hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as per Quote 1, and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, as per Quote 2. It enhances selectivity towards alkene formation by disproportionately raising the energy of the third cleavage step, as per Quote 4, improving overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, preserving catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's ineffective in removing pre-existing coke but excels in preventing precursor formation. Hydrogen can eliminate reversible coke via hydrogenation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity and enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting the metal, and it converts Lewis acid sites to Brnsted sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation and decreases catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke formation at lower temperatures. It weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation. Hydrogen's impact on reaction mechanisms includes the suppression of coke precursors and the reduction of polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, affecting catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and prolongs catalyst life, leading to improved process efficiency and performance by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little impact on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The effects on propene formation are similar to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Hydrogen cofeeding has a larger effect on propene selectivity than ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5%. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne. This understanding is crucial for improving catalyst stability and overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition, as Raman spectroscopy reveals. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations foster more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 levels yield disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving reaction selectivity. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, potentially increasing alkene yield. This selective effect suggests that minor hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but it doesn't remove existing coke. Its efficiency in preventing coke precursor formation is crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the catalyst support without affecting the metal, weakens support acidity, and reduces coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, complicating coke removal. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by prolonging catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke. It converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening support acidity and reducing hard coke formation. Hydrogen's impact on reaction mechanisms includes the suppression of coke precursors and lowering polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, thereby improving catalyst stability and reducing regeneration needs. This leads to better process efficiency and performance by minimizing catalyst deactivation. The implication is prolonged catalyst life and enhanced overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains high. Hydrogen is critical in minimizing coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke buildup. These effects contribute to maintaining catalyst stability and improving reaction dynamics, though the literature does not detail impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, graphitization, or overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen curbs coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and thus, polymerization. This increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but supported Pt nanoparticles' sintering may permanently deactivate them. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity, and can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, increased hydrogen pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, particularly on the support, by reducing propylene and propane pressures and converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. It weakly affects coke formation on the metal. Hydrogen reduces the formation of coke precursors and lowers the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, enhancing catalyst stability. The shift of Peak II to lower temperatures with increased hydrogen pressure indicates softer coke formation on the support.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially improving overall process performance. The literature suggests similar benefits for hydrogen cofeeding, though specific impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation, acid site conversions, and graphitization are not discussed.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio influences propene formation differently than ethene, with a larger effect on propene selectivity, yet it remains above 95.5% even at high ratios. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to adding Sn, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen suppresses coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. This increases catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts. The increase in PDH conversion with higher H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but supported Pt nanoparticles' sintering may permanently deactivate them. Experiments with lower propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. In high H2 concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption and raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, improving selectivity. Small hydrogen additions can thus optimize PDH efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but does not remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke accumulation on the support without significantly affecting the metal, weakens support acidity, and converts Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by prolonging catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, decreasing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct mechanisms. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation without significantly affecting soft coke on the metal. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could enhance process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, although specific impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization are not discussed. The overall implication is that hydrogen cofeeding might prolong catalyst life and boost process performance by minimizing coke buildup.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio influences propene formation and selectivity, with selectivity remaining above 95.5% even at high ratios. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, by increasing propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, and suppresses coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. This reduces polymerization of carbon species, decreasing coke deposition. Hydrogen increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The addition of hydrogen either increases defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases crystallite size. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts propane dehydrogenation conversion by reducing coke deposition. Initially, active sites are inhibited by coke, but supported Pt nanoparticles' sintering may permanently inhibit these sites. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving conversion, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving reaction selectivity. By raising the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, small hydrogen additions can significantly favor alkene formation, boosting process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "In the PDH process, hydrogen cofeeding suppresses coke formation and maintains catalyst activity, crucial for preventing deactivation. It effectively prevents the formation of coke precursors but cannot remove already formed coke. Hydrogen's ability to remove reversible coke through hydrogenation supports catalyst stability and enhances process efficiency, highlighting its role in sustaining catalytic activity during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and boosts catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects enhance catalyst longevity and could improve propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, notably reducing hard coke formation on the support, as indicated by the shift of Peak II to lower temperatures. It weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, and alters reaction mechanisms, affecting polymerization and reducing polymer molecular weight.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially improving overall process performance. The literature does not detail impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, or graphitization, but the inferred benefits on catalyst longevity and process efficiency are significant.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of hydrogen qualitatively affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Hydrogen's impact on propene selectivity is slightly greater than on ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5%. The addition of Ga to the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The activity loss of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O is less for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, and coke accumulation is greater for ethane. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces the likelihood of carbon species polymerization and coke formation. Hydrogen boosts catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The decrease in coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, correlates with increased propane dehydrogenation conversion. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but sintering of Pt nanoparticles may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, reducing deactivation and potentially extending catalyst lifetimes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, improving selectivity towards alkenes. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance by favoring alkene formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's ineffective at removing existing coke but excels at preventing precursor formation, which is key to sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support without affecting the metal, weakens support acidity by converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, and correlates positively with coke graphitization, complicating coke removal at higher temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a weak effect on the metal. It reduces coke precursor formation and lowers the rate of catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke formation. The reaction order for coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct mechanisms for coke formation. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation without significantly affecting soft coke on the metal. The presence of hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation and lowers polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    