Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process affect coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms, considering its impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization, and what are the implications of these effects on the overall process efficiency and performance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive effects and mechanisms of hydrogen cofeeding on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction dynamics in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor in steam reforming, may suppress coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This could improve process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's effect on coke suppression at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene selectivity more than ethene, yet propene selectivity remains above 95.5%. Lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The D Raman band shift remains unexplained, but narrowed bands indicate higher carbon order with fewer defects. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, linking less disordered coke to reduced side reactions. High H2 concentrations foster more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 levels yield disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. H2 maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. It facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, improving selectivity. Hydrogen raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, potentially increasing alkene yield. This selective reaction enhancement by hydrogen boosts PDH efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation and maintains catalyst activity, crucial for process efficiency. It prevents coke precursor formation and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, but cannot remove already formed coke. This enhances stability and efficiency by reducing coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support without affecting the metal, weakens support acidity, and promotes coke graphitization, which complicates coke removal. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, while its effect on the metal is minimal. It suppresses coke precursor formation and shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke formation. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. The reaction order suggests coke can form from both propane and propylene, with hydrogen influencing polymerization by reducing polymer molecular weight.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, enhancing catalyst stability and process efficiency. By maintaining a reducing atmosphere, it prevents coke precursor formation, potentially reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, thus improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio influences propene formation differently than ethene, with a larger effect on propene selectivity, which stays above 95.5% even at high ratios. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O shows less activity loss with propane than with ethane dehydrogenation, and coke accumulation is greater for ethane. Lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on the catalyst surface, reducing coke formation and improving conversion and selectivity, especially on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts. Increased hydrogen concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, as observed by Raman spectroscopy. This leads to more ordered carbon structures with fewer defects. In the presence of high hydrogen levels, more graphitic coke forms, covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, disordered coke accumulates on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing active sites for dehydrogenation. These effects contribute to improved conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, with implications for enhanced process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation, thus improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but does not remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and maintaining activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. Graphitization of coke correlates with hydrogen pressure, making coke removal harder due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, particularly on the support, by reducing propylene and propane pressures and converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. It weakly affects coke formation on the metal. Hydrogen reduces the formation of coke precursors and lowers the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, impacting reaction mechanisms. The shift of Peak II to lower temperatures with increased hydrogen pressure indicates softer coke formation on the support.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor in steam reforming, may suppress coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could improve process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's role in coke suppression. The implications include prolonged catalyst life and better overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little impact on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts through the hydrogenation of coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but optimal ratios differ. Selectivity to propene is minimally affected, staying above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne, impacting catalyst stability and reaction dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. This competitive adsorption reduces carbon species' surface coverage, decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but sintering of Pt nanoparticles may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle. Less graphitic coke suggests a link between disordered coke and side reactions. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. H2 maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's effective against coke precursors but doesn't remove formed coke. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in sustaining catalyst stability and process performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability. It raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making removal more challenging. These effects improve process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by decreasing propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke precursor formation and reducing catalyst deactivation. It shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke formation. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization. The rate of coke formation on the support is reduced by hydrogen, while its effect on the metal is minimal.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that hinders coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio impacts propene formation and selectivity, with the latter remaining above 95.5% even at high ratios. Ga in the catalyst suppresses coke formation. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The loss in catalyst activity is smaller for ethane than propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts reduces coke formation by limiting carbon species adsorption, decreasing polymerization and coke likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. The presence of hydrogen leads to less coke, more graphitic in nature, covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing active sites for dehydrogenation. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, reducing deactivation and potentially extending catalyst lifetimes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving reaction selectivity. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, potentially increasing alkene yield. This selective enhancement by hydrogen can boost PDH process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "In the PDH process, hydrogen cofeeding suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but it doesn't remove already formed coke. Hydrogen prevents the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. It can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance. Thus, hydrogen cofeeding significantly boosts PDH process stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, increased hydrogen pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing catalyst deactivation. It decreases the formation of hard coke by weakening the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites. Hydrogen also reduces the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, affecting reaction mechanisms. The decrease in total coke is mainly due to reduced Peak II area, indicating softer coke formation. Hydrogen's presence does not significantly affect the formation of soft coke on the metal.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, thereby improving catalyst stability and process efficiency. By maintaining a reducing atmosphere, hydrogen cofeeding prevents the formation of coke precursors, potentially reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. This leads to better process efficiency and performance through enhanced catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen's impact on propene formation differs from ethene, with the maximum occurring at a distinct hydrogen-to-propane ratio. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces the likelihood of carbon species polymerization and coke formation. Hydrogen increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, active sites are inhibited by coke, but sintering of supported Pt nanoparticles may permanently inhibit these sites. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke covering the support, while low H2 leads to disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. H2 keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing overall process efficiency and performance by improving conversion, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. It facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, improving selectivity. Hydrogen raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, favoring alkene production. This selectivity enhancement by hydrogen cofeeding boosts PDH efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "In the PDH process, hydrogen cofeeding effectively prevents coke formation and maintains catalyst activity, crucial for process efficiency. While hydrogen suppresses the formation of coke precursors and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, it cannot remove coke already formed, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role. This mechanism significantly enhances catalyst stability and process performance by reducing coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke accumulation on the support, alters acidity by converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, and positively correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by decreasing propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke precursor formation, and reducing catalyst deactivation. It shifts coke formation to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. However, it has a minimal effect on soft coke on the metal. The reaction mechanisms are altered, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation and improve catalyst stability, akin to water vapor's effect. This could maintain a reducing atmosphere, preventing coke precursor formation, and potentially enhancing process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. The exact impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization are not discussed, but suppressing coke formation would likely improve catalyst longevity and process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by facilitating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio impacts propene formation and selectivity differently than ethene, with propene selectivity staying above 95.5% even at high ratios. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a more ordered carbon structure. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but sintering of Pt nanoparticles may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle. Less graphitic coke suggests a link between disordered coke and side reactions. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving conversion, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two. This enhances selectivity towards alkene formation, improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but it doesn't remove existing coke. Hydrogen prevents the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. It can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke formation at lower temperatures. It weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are influenced, with hydrogen reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability and process efficiency. By maintaining a reducing atmosphere, hydrogen cofeeding could prevent coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. This leads to better overall process performance and efficiency through enhanced catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The impact on propene formation is qualitatively similar to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Hydrogen addition affects propene selectivity more than ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5%. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. Coke accumulation is higher for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen curbs coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and minimizing coke polymerization. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, peaking at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may permanently deactivate them. Higher hydrogen concentrations yield more graphitic coke, mainly on the support, while disordered coke forms in its absence, affecting Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing selectivity and conversion across cycles. These effects imply enhanced process efficiency, conversion, and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, and enhances selectivity towards alkene formation by disproportionately raising the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step. This improves process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "In the PDH process, hydrogen cofeeding suppresses coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency. It prevents the buildup of coke by inhibiting precursor formation, maintaining catalytic activity. However, hydrogen does not remove existing coke, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role. Reversible coke can be eliminated through hydrogenation, contributing to sustained process performance. These effects significantly improve PDH efficiency by reducing coke formation and preserving catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting metal coke levels. It weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, which decreases coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It reduces coke precursor formation and lowers catalyst deactivation rates. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke. It converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening support acidity and reducing hard coke formation. Reaction mechanisms are influenced, suppressing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of hydrogen qualitatively affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio for propene differs from that for ethene. Hydrogen cofeeding has a greater impact on propene selectivity than ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The literature does not detail hydrogen cofeeding's effects on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, graphitization, or overall process efficiency and performance. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen curbs coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage and polymerization likelihood. This increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with decreased coke deposition detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. Active sites, initially inhibited by coke, may be permanently affected by Pt nanoparticle sintering. Experiments with 25-50% propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 levels yield disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving conversion, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. It facilitates alkene desorption and raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This optimization boosts process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's ineffective at removing existing coke but excels in preventing precursor formation. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This significantly boosts PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting metal coke levels. It weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, which decreases coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation, decreases catalyst deactivation, and promotes softer coke formation at lower temperatures. Hydrogen converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening support acidity and reducing hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are altered, with hydrogen suppressing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and improving process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen's impact on propene formation is qualitatively similar to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Hydrogen-to-propane ratio has a larger effect on propene selectivity than ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5%. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst shows less activity loss with propane than with ethane dehydrogenation, and coke accumulation is greater for ethane. Lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption on Pt-based catalysts by hydrogen suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage and polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy. The presence of hydrogen leads to more graphitic coke covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and catalyst longevity, enhancing overall PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. It facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, improving selectivity. Hydrogen raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, favoring alkene production. This selectivity enhancement and coke reduction improve process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process effectively suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It notably prevents the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity during the reaction. However, hydrogen does not remove coke already formed on the catalyst. It can, however, remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, contributing to the overall process efficiency and performance. These effects significantly enhance the stability and efficiency of the PDH process by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support while keeping metal coke stable, weakens support acidity by converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, and correlates positively with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging. These effects improve process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke. It converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening support acidity and reducing hard coke formation. Hydrogen's impact on reaction mechanisms includes the suppression of coke precursors and the reduction of polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little impact on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation differently than ethene, with the maximum occurring at a distinct hydrogen-to-propane ratio. Despite this, propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces the likelihood of carbon species polymerization into coke. Hydrogen increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The presence of hydrogen either increases defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Active sites initially inhibited by coke may be permanently affected by Pt nanoparticle sintering. Experiments with lower propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, linking less disordered coke to reduced side reactions. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving overall PDH process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption, and enhances selectivity towards alkene production. This improves process efficiency and performance by raising the energy barrier for undesired cleavage steps more than for desired ones.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's ineffective in removing already formed coke but excels in preventing precursor formation. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support while keeping metal coke levels stable, weakens support acidity, and promotes coke graphitization, which complicates coke removal. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It reduces coke precursor formation, lowering catalyst deactivation rates. Hydrogen's addition suppresses total coke, particularly soft coke on the support, shifting its formation to lower temperatures. It converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation. Hydrogen's impact on reaction mechanisms includes the suppression of coke precursors and reduction of polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, without significantly affecting soft coke on the metal.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species, and the presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene formation and selectivity, with propene selectivity remaining above 95.5% even at high ratios. Lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne, highlighting the role of hydrogen cofeeding in managing coke formation and maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, as observed by Raman spectroscopy. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts reduces coke formation, lowering surface coverage of carbon species and decreasing polymerization. This increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The shift in D Raman band position is unexplained, but narrowing bands indicate higher carbon order. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but sintering of Pt nanoparticles may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle. Less graphitic coke suggests a link between disordered coke and side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and stability, reducing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as per Quote 1, and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, as per Quote 2. It raises the energy of the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, as per Quotes 3 and 4, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This enhances process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but does not remove already formed coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance by reducing coke formation and maintaining activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support while acidity conversion from Lewis to Brnsted sites further reduces coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, complicating coke removal. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It reduces coke precursor formation, lowering catalyst deactivation rates. Hydrogen's addition suppresses total coke, particularly soft coke on the support, shifting its formation to lower temperatures. The reaction order suggests coke can form from propane and propylene, with hydrogen weakening support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, and reducing hard coke formation. Hydrogen minimally impacts soft coke on the metal, influencing reaction mechanisms by reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    