Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process affect coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms, considering its impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization, and what are the implications of these effects on the overall process efficiency and performance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive effects and mechanisms of hydrogen cofeeding on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction dynamics in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, thereby improving catalyst stability and reducing regeneration needs. This contributes to enhanced process efficiency and performance by minimizing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation rates differently than ethene, with a greater impact on propene selectivity, which stays above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. Coke accumulation is higher for ethane dehydrogenation than propane, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. Catalyst activity loss is smaller for ethane than propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition, as Raman spectroscopy reveals. Hydrogen's presence leads to more graphitic coke on the catalyst support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing selectivity and conversion in consecutive cycles. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance, reducing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption, and enhances reaction selectivity towards alkenes. Adsorbed hydrogen atoms lower the rate of coke buildup and aid alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. Hydrogen raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's ineffective in removing existing coke but excels in preventing precursor formation. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke, enhancing process efficiency and performance. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support while keeping metal coke stable, weakens support acidity, and correlates positively with coke graphitization, complicating coke removal. These effects improve process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen reduces hard coke formation by weakening support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites. The addition of hydrogen decreases total coke, especially Peak II, indicating softer coke formation. Reaction mechanisms are influenced, with hydrogen reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could enhance process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's role in coke suppression.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation rates differently than ethene, with a greater impact on propene selectivity at higher hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces the likelihood of carbon species polymerization and coke formation. Hydrogen increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure. Increased H2 concentration correlates with decreased coke deposition, enhancing propane dehydrogenation conversion. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but sintering of supported Pt nanoparticles may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, linking less graphitic coke to side reactions like cracking. In high H2 concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates this process over dehydrogenation. It selectively raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving alkene selectivity. This suggests small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance by favoring alkene formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but it doesn't remove existing coke. Its role in preventing coke precursors is crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's effectiveness in enhancing PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the catalyst support while the metal's coke amount remains stable. In a hydrogen atmosphere, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, which curbs coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects contribute to longer catalyst lifetimes and potentially higher propylene yields, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing catalyst deactivation. It decreases the formation of hard coke by converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, while its effect on the metal is minimal. Hydrogen reduces the formation of coke precursors and lowers the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, affecting reaction dynamics. The decrease in coke is mainly due to reduced Peak II area, indicating softer coke formation on the support, as hydrogen promotes lower temperature coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor, may suppress coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This could improve process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, implying better catalyst longevity and overall process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation differently than ethene, with selectivity to propene remaining above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH boosts catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, enhancing propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. This reduces polymerization of carbon species, decreasing coke deposition. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve, especially at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's presence correlates with higher ordered carbon structures and smaller graphitic crystallites. Increased propane conversion with higher H2 concentration is linked to reduced coke deposition. Initially inhibited sites by coke may become permanently inactive due to Pt nanoparticle sintering. Experiments at 25% and 50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, implicating disordered coke in side reactions. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance by increasing conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation, while raising the energy barrier for undesired cleavage steps more than for the initial reactions. This suggests that minor hydrogen additions can significantly improve alkene formation, boosting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but does not remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity, and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing the energy barrier for deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. In hydrogen atmosphere, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support by reducing propylene and propane pressures, decreasing the rate of catalyst deactivation. It does not remove existing coke but prevents further accumulation. Hydrogen promotes softer coke formation and shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating a change in coke structure. It weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, which suppresses coke precursor formation and reduces polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor, may suppress coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could improve process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, though specific impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization are not discussed. The suppression of coke formation implies better catalyst longevity and performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of hydrogen also affects the rate and selectivity of propene formation, with the maximum occurring at a different hydrogen-to-propane ratio than for ethene. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to the addition of Sn, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen reduces adsorbed carbon species, decreasing coke formation. This leads to increased catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition decreases coke deposition, as observed by operando Raman spectroscopy, and increases ordered carbon structure with fewer defects. The presence of hydrogen results in less coke formation and more graphitic coke covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, enhancing overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving reaction selectivity. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, potentially increasing alkene yield. This selective enhancement by hydrogen can boost PDH process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process prevents coke formation, crucial for maintaining catalyst activity and process efficiency. It suppresses coke precursor formation but cannot remove existing coke. Hydrogen's ability to remove reversible coke through hydrogenation supports catalyst stability, enhancing overall PDH process performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability. It prevents deep reactions leading to coke by increasing the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing the rate of catalyst deactivation. It decreases the total coke amount, especially the harder coke on the support, by converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7 order with hydrogen, and 1.4 order with propane, indicating different reaction mechanisms for coke formation. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, reducing hard coke formation, but has a minimal effect on soft coke on the metal. The presence of hydrogen also suppresses coke precursor formation and lowers the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, thereby improving catalyst stability and reaction dynamics. This could lead to enhanced process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen's impact on propene formation is qualitatively similar to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The loss in activity of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O is smaller for ethane than propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, as observed by Raman spectroscopy. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on the catalyst surface, reducing carbon species' surface coverage and coke formation. This leads to increased stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The D Raman band shift remains unexplained, but narrowing bands indicate higher carbon order. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition and higher propane conversion. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. H2 keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as per Quote 1, and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, as per Quote 2. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, as summarized from Quote 3, improving selectivity towards alkene formation, as per Quote 4. This enhances process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process effectively prevents coke formation and maintains catalyst activity, crucial for process efficiency. It suppresses the formation of coke precursors and can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, but cannot eliminate coke already formed. This role is pivotal in sustaining the catalytic activity and overall performance of the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It increases the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke accumulation on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke levels. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing catalyst deactivation. It decreases the total coke amount, particularly affecting Peak II, indicating softer coke formation. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7 order with hydrogen, and 1.4 order with propane, suggesting distinct mechanisms for coke formation from propane and propylene. Hydrogen's presence suppresses coke precursor formation and lowers polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, affecting reaction dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and improving process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little impact on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursors. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene formation differently than ethene, with propene selectivity remaining above 95.5% even at high ratios. Ga in the catalyst suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration nears equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O shows less activity loss with ethane than propane dehydrogenation. Coke accumulation is higher for ethane than propane, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen curbs coke formation on Pt-based catalysts, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and thus decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. This leads to increased stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The decrease in coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, correlates with higher propane dehydrogenation conversion at elevated H2 concentrations. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but supported Pt nanoparticles' sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, hinting at a connection between disordered coke and side reactions like cracking. In high H2 concentrations, more graphitic coke forms, primarily covering the support, while in its absence, more disordered coke appears on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving overall process efficiency and performance through enhanced conversion, selectivity, and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption by facilitating adsorbed hydrogen atoms. It raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, improving selectivity towards alkene formation, thus boosting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, aiding in reversible coke removal through hydrogenation, which enhances process efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support without affecting metal coke levels, weakens support acidity, and promotes coke graphitization, which complicates coke removal. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen reduces hard coke by converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, while not significantly affecting soft coke on the metal. The addition of hydrogen decreases total coke, mainly by reducing Peak II, indicating softer coke formation. The reaction order suggests coke can form from propane and propylene, with hydrogen influencing polymerization by reducing molecular weight.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This contributes to improved catalyst stability and process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by facilitating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen cofeeding's effect on propene formation differs from ethene, with selectivity to propene remaining above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne, impacting catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts conversion and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Raman spectroscopy reveals hydrogen's role in altering coke deposition and structure, indicating higher ordered carbon with fewer defects. The addition of hydrogen either increases defects in the graphitic lattice or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Active sites initially inhibited by coke may be permanently affected by Pt nanoparticle sintering. Experiments with lower propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving overall process efficiency and performance by enhancing conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as per Quote 1, and facilitates alkene desorption, as per Quote 2. It notably raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, as per Quote 4, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can improve reaction selectivity and overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke via hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and stability by reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support while keeping metal coke stable, weakens support acidity, and promotes graphitization, which complicates coke removal. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke precursors, and converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. It has a minor effect on coke formation on the metal. The addition of hydrogen significantly decreases total coke, mainly by reducing Peak II, associated with support-formed coke, and promoting softer coke. Hydrogen weakens the support's acidity, reducing hard coke formation without significantly affecting soft coke on the metal. Reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, which reduces polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures. This could maintain a reducing atmosphere, preventing coke precursor formation and improving process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. The potential impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, and graphitization are not explicitly discussed, but suppressing coke formation could lead to better catalyst longevity and overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. Crucially, hydrogen reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition qualitatively affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio for propene differs. Even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios, propene selectivity stays above 95.5%. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage and polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, especially at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy. The experiments show enhanced selectivity with 25% and 50% propane, linking less disordered coke to reduced side reactions. In high H2 concentrations, more graphitic coke forms, covering the support, while hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke. These effects lead to improved conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, enhancing overall PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving reaction selectivity towards alkene production. By significantly raising the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity, and can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Computational simulations confirm that hydrogen adsorption on the Pt surface raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke accumulation on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke levels. In a hydrogen atmosphere, the support's acidity weakens, converting Lewis acid sites to Brnsted acid sites, which reduces coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal, by suppressing coke precursor formation and reducing catalyst deactivation. It promotes softer coke and decreases hard coke by converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency, affecting reaction dynamics by reducing the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation differently than ethene, with propene selectivity remaining above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage and polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, especially at 75% propane concentration. Increased hydrogen concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a more ordered carbon structure. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Higher hydrogen levels favor graphitic coke formation on the catalyst support, while disordered coke forms in its absence, affecting Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing selectivity and conversion. These effects imply improved process efficiency, reduced catalyst deactivation, and enhanced stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption, and enhances selectivity towards alkene formation by raising the energy barrier for undesired cleavage steps. This improves process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's ineffective at removing existing coke but excels at preventing precursor formation. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing catalyst deactivation. It decreases the formation of coke precursors and alters the coke's nature, promoting softer coke. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which further reduces coke formation. However, it has a minimal effect on the metal's coke formation. The addition of hydrogen significantly decreases total coke amount, mainly by reducing Peak II, associated with support-formed coke. This shift to lower temperatures indicates hydrogen's promotion of softer coke. The reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, which can reduce the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen addition's impact on propene formation is similar to ethene, but optimal ratios differ. Selectivity to propene remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. As alkene concentration nears equilibrium, formation rates align with expected equilibrium conversion, decreasing with higher H2/alkane ratios. Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O shows less activity loss with propane than ethane dehydrogenation. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane, with carbon deposition far exceeding exposed Pt atoms. Lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, peaking at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Active sites initially inhibited by coke may be permanently affected by Pt nanoparticle sintering. Experiments with lower propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, linking less disordered coke to reduced side reactions. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while disordered coke forms in its absence, affecting Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, optimizing PDH efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving reaction selectivity towards alkene formation. This is achieved by raising the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, suggesting that small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity maintenance. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance. This significantly boosts PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen converts Lewis acid sites to Brnsted sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke formation. The reaction order suggests coke forms from propane and propylene differently. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis sites, reducing hard coke formation. It minimally impacts soft coke on the metal. Reaction mechanisms are influenced as hydrogen reduces polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation process may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, thereby improving catalyst stability. This contributes to a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation, potentially enhancing process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition's impact on propene formation rate is qualitatively similar to ethene formation, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Propene selectivity is slightly more affected by the hydrogen-to-propane ratio than ethene selectivity but remains above 95.5%. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption on Pt-based catalysts by hydrogen reduces carbon species surface coverage, decreasing coke formation. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts conversion and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Reduced coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, correlates with higher conversion. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing active sites for dehydrogenation. These effects improve overall process efficiency, conversion, and selectivity, reducing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, potentially increasing efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation process effectively suppresses coke formation and maintains catalyst activity, crucial for process efficiency. It prevents the formation of coke precursors and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, but cannot eliminate already formed coke. This role is pivotal in sustaining catalyst stability and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with metal coke levels unchanged. Hydrogen converts Lewis acid sites to Brnsted sites, reducing coking. Graphitization of coke correlates with hydrogen pressure, making coke removal harder due to higher combustion temperatures, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, weakly affecting the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, reducing catalyst deactivation. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct mechanisms. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, and reduces hard coke formation without significantly affecting soft coke on the metal. The presence of hydrogen alters reaction mechanisms, impacting polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    