Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process affect coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms, considering its impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization, and what are the implications of these effects on the overall process efficiency and performance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive effects and mechanisms of hydrogen cofeeding on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction dynamics in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. Hydrogen's impact on propene formation varies with the hydrogen-to-propane ratio, affecting selectivity more than ethene formation from ethane. Selectivity to propene remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. As alkene concentration nears equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The activity loss and coke accumulation are less for propane than ethane dehydrogenation, attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts reduces coke formation by limiting carbon species adsorption, decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, especially at 75% propane concentration. Increased hydrogen concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy. The catalyst's active sites, initially inhibited by coke, may become permanently inactive due to Pt nanoparticle sintering. Experiments with lower propane concentrations (25-50%) show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, implicating disordered coke in side reactions like cracking. High hydrogen concentrations favor more graphitic coke on the support, while low hydrogen levels yield disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance by enhancing alkene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity during the reaction. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. However, it doesn't remove already formed coke, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve catalyst longevity and propylene yields, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a weak effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen reduces hard coke by converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, with minimal impact on soft coke on the metal. The reaction order shows coke forms from propane and propylene, influenced by hydrogen, which lowers the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially impacting energy barriers and coke accumulation patterns. The implication is prolonged catalyst life and enhanced process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of hydrogen also affects the rate of propene formation, with a different optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio compared to ethene formation. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The addition of Ga to the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen cofeeding's impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization is not discussed in the literature. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The activity loss of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O is less for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, and coke accumulation is greater for ethane. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke likelihood. Hydrogen boosts catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations foster more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 levels yield disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and facilitates alkene desorption, improving selectivity towards alkene production. By significantly raising the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, small hydrogen additions enhance reaction efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's effective in preventing coke but doesn't remove already formed coke. Hydrogen's role in suppressing coke precursors is crucial for maintaining catalytic activity. It can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen reduces hard coke by converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, with minimal effect on soft coke on the metal. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct reaction mechanisms for coke formation from propane and propylene. Hydrogen's presence weakens support acidity and lowers the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, impacting reaction dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation and enhance catalyst stability, akin to water vapor's role in steam reforming. By maintaining a reducing atmosphere, it prevents coke precursor formation, potentially improving process efficiency and performance through reduced catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. The literature suggests similar effects on energy barriers, coke accumulation, acid site conversions, and graphitization, though these are not explicitly discussed. The overall implication is improved catalyst longevity and process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio influences propene selectivity, which remains above 95.5% even at high ratios. Lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, by increasing propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, and suppresses coke formation on Pt-based catalysts. This competitive adsorption reduces carbon species surface coverage, decreasing coke likelihood. Hydrogen boosts catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The shift in D Raman band position is unexplained, but narrowed bands indicate higher carbon order. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle. Less graphitic coke suggests a link between disordered coke and side reactions. High H2 concentrations form more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 leads to disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, enhances alkene desorption, and improves reaction selectivity towards alkenes. By raising the energy barrier of the undesired third cleavage step more than the first two, small hydrogen additions can significantly boost alkene production, optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but it doesn't remove existing coke. Its role in preventing coke precursors is crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance. This highlights hydrogen's effectiveness in enhancing PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke accumulation on the support without significantly affecting metal coke levels. The support's acidity is reduced in hydrogen atmosphere, converting Lewis acid sites to Brnsted acid sites, which mitigates coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by prolonging catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, decreases the formation of hard coke, and weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites. This decreases the total coke amount, especially the harder coke on the support, and promotes softer coke formation. Hydrogen's presence also influences reaction mechanisms, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation rates differently than ethene, with the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio for maximum propene formation varying. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy. The experiments reveal a strong selectivity increase with each cycle at 25% and 50% propane concentrations, linking less graphitic coke to reduced side reactions. High H2 concentrations favor more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 levels yield disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. An adsorbed hydrogen atom facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, while selectively raising the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two. This improves reaction selectivity towards alkenes, boosting process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity by preventing coke precursor buildup. It's effective against reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. However, hydrogen does not remove already formed coke, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability. It increases the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with little effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging. These effects improve process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke precursor formation, and decreasing catalyst deactivation. It shifts coke formation towards softer types, evident by the decrease in Peak II area and its shift to lower temperatures. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, which can lower the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, affecting catalyst stability and reaction dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor, may suppress coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This leads to improved process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's role in coke suppression.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The impact on propene formation is qualitatively similar to ethene formation, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Hydrogen addition affects propene selectivity more than ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen reduces adsorbed carbon species, hindering coke formation. This decreases coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The D Raman band shift remains unexplained. Narrower Raman bands denote higher carbon order and fewer defects. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may permanently disable them. Experiments at 25% and 50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle. Less graphitic coke suggests a link between disordered coke and side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation and decreases catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen's presence weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, and promotes softer coke formation. The reaction order suggests coke forms from propane and propylene differently. Hydrogen decreases hard coke but has a minor impact on soft coke on the metal, influencing reaction mechanisms by reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, thereby improving catalyst stability and process efficiency. By maintaining a reducing atmosphere, hydrogen cofeeding prevents coke precursor formation, potentially reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. This leads to better overall process performance and efficiency by prolonging catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The impact on propene formation is qualitatively similar to ethene formation, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Hydrogen addition has a larger effect on propene selectivity than ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5%. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, the formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces the likelihood of carbon species polymerization and coke formation. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. The experiments reveal a strong increase in selectivity with 25% and 50% propane concentrations, linking less graphitic coke to reduced side reactions. In high H2 concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates this process over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity for alkene formation. This suggests small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance by enhancing alkene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation process effectively suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It notably prevents the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity during the reaction. While hydrogen is adept at removing reversible coke through hydrogenation, it cannot eliminate coke that has already formed on the catalyst. This dual role of hydrogen in preventing coke formation and removing reversible coke enhances the stability and efficiency of the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability. It raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions that cause coke buildup. Hydrogen decreases coke accumulation on the support while the metal's coke amount remains stable. In a hydrogen atmosphere, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis acid sites to Brnsted acid sites, which reduces coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke. It converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening support acidity and reducing hard coke formation. Reaction mechanisms are influenced, with hydrogen suppressing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, impacting catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor in steam reforming, may suppress coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This could improve process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's effect on coke suppression at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene selectivity more than ethene, yet propene selectivity remains above 95.5%. Lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, fostering smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen curbs coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage and polymerization likelihood. This boosts catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with increased PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may permanently deactivate them. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High hydrogen concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt's surface free of disordered coke, improving conversion, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen atoms facilitate alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation, while selectively raising the energy barrier for undesired cleavage steps, thus improving alkene production. This mechanism suggests that minor hydrogen additions can significantly boost process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but does not remove existing coke. Its role in preventing coke precursor formation is crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance by reducing coke formation and maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, suppressing coke precursor formation and decreasing catalyst deactivation. It shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke formation. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. The reaction order suggests coke can form from propane and propylene, influenced by hydrogen. Hydrogen's impact is less on soft coke on the metal, affecting catalyst stability and reaction dynamics by altering acidity and coke accumulation patterns.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene formation and selectivity, with selectivity remaining above 95.5% even at high ratios. Ga in the catalyst suppresses coke formation. The literature lacks details on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, graphitization, and their implications on process efficiency. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The activity loss and coke accumulation are less for propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher propane dehydrogenation conversion due to reduced coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. The presence of hydrogen leads to more graphitic coke covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing selectivity and conversion in consecutive cycles. These effects improve overall process efficiency and performance, reducing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, improving alkene formation selectivity. This suggests that minor hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support without affecting the metal. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. Graphitization of coke correlates with hydrogen pressure, making coke removal harder due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing catalyst deactivation. It decreases the formation of coke precursors and the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, which decreases the rate of coke formation. The addition of hydrogen shifts the coke formation peak to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke formation. This impacts catalyst stability and reaction dynamics, enhancing overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Higher hydrogen-to-propane ratios have a greater impact on propene selectivity than ethene, yet selectivity remains above 95.5%. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The activity loss of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O is less for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, and coke accumulation is greater for ethane. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. This is due to hydrogen's ability to suppress coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a higher ordered carbon structure. Increased H2 concentration correlates with decreased coke deposition, enhancing propane dehydrogenation conversion. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but sintering of Pt nanoparticles may cause permanent inhibition. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, linking disordered coke to side reactions like cracking. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 leads to disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving overall process efficiency and performance by enhancing conversion, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation, while significantly raising the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step, thus improving alkene formation selectivity. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support while keeping metal coke levels stable, weakens support acidity, and reduces coking rates. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures promote graphitization, complicating coke removal. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, while its effect on the metal is minimal. It suppresses coke precursors and converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening the support's acidity and reducing hard coke formation. The reaction order of coking on the support is first order with respect to propylene, 0.7 order with respect to hydrogen, and 1.4 order with respect to propane, indicating that coke can form from both propane and propylene with distinct mechanisms. Hydrogen's presence reduces the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, affecting reaction dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor in steam reforming, may suppress coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could lead to improved process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, as inferred from water vapor's role in coke suppression.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation rates differently than ethene, with a greater impact on propene selectivity, yet it remains above 95.5%. Coke accumulation is higher in ethane dehydrogenation than propane, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The loss in catalyst activity is less for ethane than propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, especially at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy. The narrowing of Raman bands indicates a more ordered carbon structure. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Higher H2 levels lead to more graphitic coke, mainly on the support, while disordered coke forms in its absence, impacting Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing selectivity and conversion, and reducing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, potentially increasing efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's ineffective in removing existing coke but excels in preventing precursor formation, crucial for sustaining activity. Hydrogen removes reversible coke via hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance. This highlights hydrogen's role in boosting PDH stability and efficiency by minimizing coke and sustaining catalyst function.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, increased hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke formation. It converts Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, weakening support acidity and reducing hard coke formation. Reaction mechanisms are influenced, with hydrogen suppressing polymerization and reducing polymer molecular weight.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. As the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, the rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen reduces carbon species on the catalyst surface, decreasing coke formation. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts conversion and selectivity, with optimal performance at 75% propane. Operando Raman spectroscopy reveals decreased coke deposition. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but supported Pt nanoparticles' sintering may permanently deactivate them. Experiments with lower propane concentrations show increased selectivity. More graphitic coke forms in high hydrogen concentrations, covering the support, while disordered coke forms in its absence, affecting Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing stability and conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as per Quote 1, and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, as per Quote 2. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, as per Quote 4, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "In the PDH process, hydrogen cofeeding suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It effectively prevents the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity during the reaction. While hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, it does not remove coke already formed, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role. This enhances the stability and efficiency of the PDH process by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions that cause coke. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal harder due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, decreasing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane, indicating distinct mechanisms. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis sites, reducing hard coke formation. It has a limited impact on soft coke on the metal. Hydrogen influences reaction mechanisms by suppressing coke precursors and lowering polymer molecular weights during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    