Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How does hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process affect coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction mechanisms, considering its impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, and graphitization, and what are the implications of these effects on the overall process efficiency and performance?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The comprehensive effects and mechanisms of hydrogen cofeeding on coke formation, catalyst stability, and reaction dynamics in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and prolongs catalyst life, improving process efficiency and performance by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs. The literature does not detail impacts on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, or graphitization, but the inferred benefits on catalyst stability and process efficiency are significant.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio impacts propene formation and selectivity, with selectivity remaining above 95.5% even at high ratios. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. As alkene concentration nears equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O shows less activity loss with propane than ethane dehydrogenation. Coke accumulation is higher for ethane, with carbon deposition far exceeding exposed Pt atoms. Lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation is attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, by increasing propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Hydrogen suppresses coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen addition, especially at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's role in forming more graphitic coke on the catalyst support and keeping Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species is crucial. These effects lead to increased conversion, selectivity, and reduced catalyst deactivation, enhancing overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving reaction selectivity. It significantly raises the energy of the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, favoring alkene formation. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "In the PDH process, hydrogen cofeeding suppresses coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency. It prevents the buildup of coke precursors, maintaining activity but cannot remove already formed coke. Hydrogen selectively removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, crucial for sustaining process performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. It increases the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, weakly affecting the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, reduces catalyst deactivation, and shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke formation. The reaction order of coking on the support is first order with propylene, 0.7 order with hydrogen, and 1.4 order with propane, showing different mechanisms for coke formation. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation without significantly affecting soft coke on the metal. Reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen addition's effect on propene formation is similar to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen ratios. Coke accumulation is less during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen reduces carbon species coverage, decreasing coke formation. Increased hydrogen concentration boosts conversion and selectivity, with optimal performance at 75% propane. The shift in D Raman band position is unexplained, but narrowed bands indicate higher carbon order. Hydrogen either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size. Higher hydrogen concentration correlates with decreased coke deposition, observed by Raman spectroscopy. Initially, coke inhibits active sites, but Pt nanoparticle sintering may permanently deactivate them. Experiments with 25-50% propane show increased selectivity per cycle. Less graphitic coke suggests a link between disordered coke and side reactions. Hydrogen promotes graphitic coke on the support and keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as per Quote 1, and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation, as per Quote 2. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, as per Quote 4, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's ineffective in removing pre-formed coke but excels in preventing precursor formation. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in stabilizing and optimizing PDH by reducing coke and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a weak effect on the metal. It reduces coke precursor formation, lessens catalyst deactivation, and shifts Peak II to lower temperatures, indicating softer coke formation. The reaction order shows coke forms from propane and propylene differently. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis sites, reducing hard coke formation. Soft coke on metal is less affected by hydrogen. Reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor, may suppress coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This could improve process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, prolonging catalyst life and enhancing overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio impacts propene formation differently than ethene, with propene selectivity remaining above 95.5% even at high ratios. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane dehydrogenation is attributed to the greater ease of hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, as observed by Raman spectroscopy. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on the catalyst surface, reducing coke formation and improving Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, enhancing conversion. The presence of hydrogen leads to more graphitic coke, covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in keeping Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, improving selectivity and conversion in consecutive cycles. These effects imply improved process efficiency, reduced catalyst deactivation, and enhanced stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. It raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, potentially increasing efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity during the reaction. Hydrogen removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. However, it doesn't remove already formed coke, highlighting its preventive rather than remedial role.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. In hydrogen atmosphere, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing the rate of catalyst deactivation. It decreases the area of Peak II, indicating softer coke formation, and shifts Peak II to lower temperatures. The reaction order of coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7 order with hydrogen, and 1.4 order with propane. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, and reduces hard coke formation. It does not significantly affect soft coke on the metal. Hydrogen suppresses coke precursor formation and reduces polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, influencing reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability and process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs. This could lead to better overall performance by prolonging catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by promoting hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen cofeeding's impact on propene formation is qualitatively similar to ethene formation, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. The selectivity to propene remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The lower coke formation during propane dehydrogenation, compared to ethane dehydrogenation, is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. The literature does not discuss hydrogen cofeeding's effects on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, graphitization, or its implications on overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, forming smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, as observed by Raman spectroscopy. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on the catalyst surface, suppressing coke formation and reducing carbon species polymerization. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve, especially at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, enhancing propane dehydrogenation conversion. The presence of hydrogen leads to more graphitic coke covering the support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, contributing to higher ordered carbon structures with fewer defects. These effects imply improved conversion, selectivity, and catalyst longevity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than for the first two, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests that small hydrogen additions can boost process efficiency and performance by enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "In the PDH process, hydrogen cofeeding suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It effectively prevents the formation of coke precursors, crucial for sustaining catalytic activity during the reaction. While hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency, it does not remove coke formed post-reaction. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH process stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation and sustaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, decreases catalyst deactivation, and promotes softer coke, as indicated by the shift of Peak II to lower temperatures. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are influenced, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect at high temperatures, potentially improving catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could lead to better process efficiency and performance by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, thus prolonging catalyst life and enhancing overall process outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by facilitating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. Hydrogen's presence is critical in minimizing coke formation on catalysts through the hydrogenation of coke precursors. The addition of hydrogen qualitatively enhances propene formation similarly to ethene, but the optimal hydrogen-to-propane ratio differs. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The lower coke formation in propane dehydrogenation compared to ethane is attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process enhances catalyst performance, akin to the addition of Sn, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It modifies coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Hydrogen competitively adsorbs on the catalyst surface, reducing carbon species' surface coverage, thus inhibiting coke formation. This leads to increased catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity, particularly on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The decrease in coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, correlates with higher propane dehydrogenation conversion. Experiments with 25 and 50% propane concentrations show enhanced selectivity per cycle, linked to less graphitic coke. In high hydrogen concentrations, more graphitic coke forms, covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, disordered coke accumulates on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen maintains Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates this process over dehydrogenation. It selectively raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving alkene selectivity. This suggests small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance by favoring alkene formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, but doesn't remove existing coke. It prevents coke precursor formation, crucial for catalytic activity, and removes reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. It weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, decreases catalyst deactivation, and promotes softer coke formation at lower temperatures. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. It does not significantly affect soft coke on the metal. Hydrogen's presence influences reaction mechanisms, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding, akin to water vapor, may suppress coke formation in propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalyst stability by maintaining a reducing atmosphere. This could reduce catalyst deactivation and regeneration, improving process efficiency and performance. The literature suggests similar effects of hydrogen cofeeding on coke suppression, leading to better catalyst longevity and overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little impact on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but optimal ratios differ. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the product alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. The loss in catalyst activity is smaller for ethane than propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, thus decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy. The presence of hydrogen leads to the formation of more graphitic coke on the catalyst support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing active sites for dehydrogenation. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, contributing to enhanced process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates alkene release over further dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance by enhancing alkene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke precursor formation, preventing coke buildup and maintaining catalyst activity. It's effective in preventing coke but not in removing it once formed, ensuring sustained catalytic efficiency. Hydrogen's role in removing reversible coke through hydrogenation supports overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted sites, reducing coking. However, increased hydrogen pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursors, reducing catalyst deactivation. The reaction order for coking on the support is first-order with propylene, 0.7-order with hydrogen, and 1.4-order with propane. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which reduces hard coke formation. Soft coke formation on the metal is less affected by hydrogen. The presence of hydrogen promotes softer coke formation on the support, shifting Peak II to lower temperatures, and significantly suppresses total coke accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation and improve catalyst stability, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that hinders coke precursor formation. This could enhance process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, leading to better overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but the maximum occurs at a different hydrogen-to-propane ratio. Propene selectivity remains above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. The rate of alkene formation decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio as the alkene concentration approaches equilibrium. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species' surface coverage and polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve, especially at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's addition either increases graphitic lattice defects or decreases crystallite size, correlating with decreased coke deposition. Active sites initially inhibited by coke may become permanently inactive due to Pt nanoparticle sintering. Selectivity rises with each cycle at 25% and 50% propane concentrations. Graphitic coke formation in high hydrogen concentrations mainly covers the support, while disordered coke forms in its absence, affecting Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing dehydrogenation activity. These effects optimize PDH process efficiency and performance, increasing conversion and selectivity while reducing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, facilitates alkene desorption, and raises the energy barrier for the third cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing selectivity for alkene formation and improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency. It prevents coke precursor buildup, maintaining activity but doesn't remove existing coke. Hydrogen's efficiency in preventing coke formation and maintaining catalytic activity is crucial for process performance. Reversible coke can be removed through hydrogenation, supporting overall efficiency. These effects significantly improve PDH process stability and efficiency by controlling coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Computational evidence shows hydrogen adsorption on Pt surfaces increases dehydrogenation energy barriers, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressures correlate with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, weakly affecting metal coke formation. It suppresses coke precursors, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen decreases the total coke amount, especially on the support, promoting softer coke formation. The reaction order of coking on the support suggests distinct mechanisms for propane and propylene. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, reducing hard coke formation without significantly affecting soft coke on the metal. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, implying better overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Hydrogen addition affects propene formation similarly to ethene, but optimal ratios differ. Selectivity to propene is minimally impacted, staying above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. As alkene concentration approaches equilibrium, alkene formation rate decreases with increasing H2/alkane ratio. Coke accumulation is higher for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits into smaller, less defective graphite crystallites, suppressing coke formation on Pt-based catalysts by competitive adsorption. This reduces the likelihood of carbon species polymerizing into coke. Hydrogen increases stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. The decrease in coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy, correlates with increased PDH conversion. Initially, active sites are coke-inhibited, but supported Pt nanoparticle sintering may permanently deactivate them. Experiments with 25-50% propane show enhanced selectivity per cycle, linking less graphitic coke to reduced side reactions. High H2 concentrations promote more graphitic coke on the support, while low H2 favors disordered coke on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, improving overall process efficiency and performance by enhancing conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and facilitates alkene desorption over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, enhancing selectivity towards alkene formation. This improves process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke precursor formation, preventing coke buildup and maintaining catalyst activity. It's effective in maintaining activity but doesn't remove existing coke. Hydrogen can eliminate reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in preventing coke formation and sustaining catalyst stability, crucial for PDH process performance.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal effect on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance, extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal, by suppressing coke precursors and reducing catalyst deactivation. It decreases the rate of coke formation on the support by lowering propylene and propane pressures, promoting softer coke formation. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. The reaction mechanisms are influenced by hydrogen, reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, thus improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which stays near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation by hydrogenating coke precursors. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio impacts propene formation differently than ethene, with a greater effect on propene selectivity, yet it remains above 95.5%. Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. Coke accumulation is higher in ethane dehydrogenation than propane, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne over ethylidyne. The presence of hydrogen is crucial for maintaining catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage and polymerization likelihood. Catalyst stability, conversion, and selectivity improve with hydrogen, peaking at 75% propane concentration. Increased hydrogen concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy. The presence of hydrogen leads to more graphitic coke covering the catalyst support, while in its absence, more disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen assists in maintaining Pt surfaces free of disordered coke species, enhancing dehydrogenation active sites. These effects optimize PDH process efficiency and performance, increasing conversion and selectivity, reducing catalyst deactivation, and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene desorption, as an adsorbed H atom facilitates this process over dehydrogenation. It significantly raises the energy barrier for the third, undesired cleavage step more than the first two, improving selectivity towards alkene formation. This suggests small hydrogen additions can boost efficiency and performance by enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation. It's effective in preventing coke precursor formation but doesn't remove already formed coke. Hydrogen can eliminate reversible coke through hydrogenation, supporting catalyst activity and enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in improving PDH stability and performance by managing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors and increasing energy barriers for deep reactions. It decreases coke on the support while keeping metal coke levels stable, weakens support acidity, and converts Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, higher hydrogen partial pressure correlates with increased coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects contribute to longer catalyst lifetimes and potentially higher propylene yields, impacting overall process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing the rate of catalyst deactivation. It decreases the propylene and propane pressures, promoting softer coke formation at lower temperatures. Hydrogen weakens the acidity of the support, converting Brnsted to Lewis acid sites, which decreases hard coke formation. It also affects reaction mechanisms by suppressing coke precursor formation and reducing polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization, thus enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This improves catalyst stability and process efficiency by reducing catalyst deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and enhancing overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with minimal impact on alkene selectivity. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursors. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke. The hydrogen-to-propane ratio affects propene selectivity more than ethene, yet propene selectivity remains above 95.5%. Coke accumulation is less during propane dehydrogenation than ethane, attributed to easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It alters coke deposits, promoting smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. Competitive adsorption of hydrogen on Pt-based catalysts suppresses coke formation, reducing carbon species surface coverage, and decreasing coke polymerization likelihood. Hydrogen boosts stability, conversion, and selectivity on Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts, with optimal performance at 75% propane concentration. Increased H2 concentration correlates with higher PDH conversion due to reduced coke deposition, detected by operando Raman spectroscopy. The experiments reveal a strong selectivity increase with 25-50% propane, linking less graphitic coke to reduced side reactions. In high H2 concentrations, more graphitic coke covers the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. Hydrogen keeps Pt surfaces free of disordered coke, enhancing active sites for dehydrogenation. These effects improve conversion, selectivity, and catalyst stability, contributing to enhanced PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation, as per Quote 1, and facilitates alkene desorption, as per Quote 2. It significantly raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, improving selectivity for alkene formation, as per Quote 4. This enhances overall process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation by preventing precursor buildup, maintaining catalyst activity, and removing reversible coke through hydrogenation, which enhances process efficiency. However, it does not remove already formed coke, highlighting its role in prevention rather than remediation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability. It raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. In hydrogen atmosphere, support acidity weakens, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, coke graphitization increases with hydrogen partial pressure, making coke removal harder due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation on the support, reducing catalyst deactivation. It decreases the formation of hard coke by converting Brnsted acid sites to Lewis acid sites, while having a minimal effect on soft coke formation on the metal. Hydrogen reduces the formation of coke precursors and lowers the molecular weight of polymers during propylene polymerization, enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH may suppress coke formation, akin to water vapor's effect, by maintaining a reducing atmosphere that prevents coke precursor formation. This enhances catalyst stability and efficiency by reducing deactivation and regeneration needs, potentially prolonging catalyst life and improving overall process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201701115"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhances alkene formation by accelerating hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. It significantly reduces coke formation on catalysts by hydrogenating coke precursor species. The presence of Ga in the catalyst further suppresses coke formation. The rate of propene formation, similar to ethene, peaks at a specific hydrogen-to-propane ratio, with a larger effect on propene selectivity than ethene. Propene selectivity stays above 95.5% even at high hydrogen-to-propane ratios. Coke accumulation is greater for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the easier hydrogenation of propyli-dyne compared to ethylidyne. The literature does not discuss the impact on energy barriers, coke accumulation patterns, acid site conversions, or graphitization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH enhances catalyst performance, akin to Sn addition, boosting propane conversion and propene selectivity. It transforms coke deposits, yielding smaller, less defective graphite crystallites. By competitively adsorbing on the catalyst surface, hydrogen reduces carbon species coverage, hindering coke formation. Increased hydrogen concentration correlates with reduced coke deposition, observed via operando Raman spectroscopy, and improved conversion. Catalyst stability and selectivity rise, particularly at 75% propane concentration. Hydrogen's presence leads to more graphitic coke on the support, while in its absence, disordered coke forms on Pt nanoparticles. The experiments at 25% and 50% propane concentration exhibit enhanced selectivity per cycle, with less graphitic coke detected, hinting at a connection between disordered coke and side reactions like cracking. These effects boost conversion, selectivity, and stability, reducing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp50646k"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH reduces coke formation and enhances alkene selectivity. Adsorbed hydrogen facilitates alkene desorption over further dehydrogenation, and selectively raises the energy barrier for undesired cleavage, improving reaction selectivity towards alkenes. This optimization of reaction dynamics by hydrogen cofeeding boosts process efficiency and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c3cp53796j"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH suppresses coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and preventing deactivation, as it prevents the formation of coke precursors. It's efficient in maintaining activity but doesn't remove existing coke. Hydrogen can remove reversible coke through hydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency. This highlights hydrogen's role in significantly improving PDH stability and efficiency by reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1006/jcat.1996.0361"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in the PDH process reduces coke formation and enhances catalyst stability by eliminating coke precursors. Adsorbed hydrogen raises the energy barrier for propylene dehydrogenation, preventing deep reactions. For PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, hydrogen decreases coke on the support, with minimal impact on metal coke. Hydrogen weakens support acidity, converting Lewis to Brnsted acid sites, reducing coking. However, increased hydrogen partial pressure correlates with coke graphitization, making coke removal more challenging due to higher combustion temperatures. These effects improve process efficiency and performance by extending catalyst lifetimes and potentially increasing propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_2"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen cofeeding in PDH decreases coke formation on the support, with a minor effect on the metal. It suppresses coke precursor formation, reducing catalyst deactivation. Hydrogen reduces the total coke amount, especially Peak II, indicating softer coke formation. The reaction order shows coke can form from propane and propylene, with hydrogen weakening support acidity, reducing hard coke formation. However, it has a limited effect on soft coke on the metal. Hydrogen alters reaction mechanisms, lowering polymer molecular weight during propylene polymerization.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-011-9708-8"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    