<quotes>

[1] "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze the conversion of light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity."
[2] "The role of the metal species and acid sites of a zeolite in the enhancement of light alkane conversion to aromatics remains a subject of intense controversy."
[3] "On the one hand, there is agreement on the bifunctional nature of these catalysts, where the metal species are responsible for the dehydrogenation of alkanes, while the Brnsted acid sites are involved in the oligomerization and cyclization of olefins."
[4] "On the other hand, it has been claimed that the activation and cleavage of CH bonds of alkanes occurs predominantly at the Brnsted acid sites."
[5] "Ga or Zn act as portholes and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed CH bond cleavage, as dihydrogen (H2)."
[6] "Desorption of hydrogen species shifts the equilibrium towards the formation of olefins and suppresses hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbon species, leading to ethane and methane."
[7] "Further olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization give aromatic species."
[8] "The activation of the alkane by the Brnsted acid sites is assumed to be independent of metal species present in zeolites."
[9] "A significant increase in the reaction rates with lowering apparent activation energies demonstrate the promoting effect of Zn on the reaction of H/D hydrogen exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes."
[10] "The acceleration of H/D exchange, coupled with the decreased activation energy for Zn-modified zeolites, demonstrates that the CH bonds in alkanes break and form more easily and reversibly with intermediate involvement of Zn species."
[11] "The intermediate formation of an olefin during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, representing the Lewis acid sites, or the involvement of Zn alkyl species, formed by the dissociative adsorption of the alkane."
[12] "The possibility of the formation of Zn-alkyl species upon alkane adsorption on Zn-modified zeolites was concluded from IR studies earlier."
[13] "For zeolites with a high Zn content (78 wt%, in our case), the formation of a Zn alkyl species presumably occurs at small ZnO clusters existing inside the zeolite pores."
[14] "Dissociative adsorption of the deuterated alkane on Zn oxide sites, which precedes H/D exchange, leads to Znalkyl species and ZnOD groups."
[15] "Protonation of the Znalkyl species by the vicinal acidic OH group of the zeolite with synchronous reverse transfer of the deuterium from the ZnOD to the zeolite acid site, finally provide a transfer of protium from the SiOHAl group of the zeolite to the deuterated alkane molecule."
[16] "The mechanism also rationalizes the involvement of only the methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes in the exchange."
[17] "It becomes clear from our data that the activation of CH bonds of small alkanes by zeolite Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, which form an intermediate with the alkane."
[18] "One can assume that the interaction of the Znalkyl species with zeolite acid sites can provide not only the H/D exchange reaction, but also a dehydrogenation step, yielding olefins for the subsequent aromatization steps."
[19] "Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites in enhancing aromatization ability could be achieved by involvement in the activation of the alkane CH bond of both the zeolite acid OH groups and the Zn alkyl species formed on Zn sites."
[20] "The intermediate or transition state, which involves the zeolite acid sites and the alkane-and-Zn sites leads to alkane dehydrogenationpresumably by the energetically most favorable way."
[21] "The enhancement of alkane conversion towards the formation of aromatic molecules on Zn-modified zeolites could be achieved."
[22] "The effect of Zn, which earlier was attributed either to the dehydrogenation ability of the loaded metal or its ability to afford the recombinative desorption of H atoms, is shown to be the direct influence of Zn on the activation of alkane CH bonds by the catalysts Brnsted acid sites."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze the conversion of light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The role of metal species and acid sites in enhancing light alkane conversion to aromatics is a subject of controversy. Metal species are responsible for the dehydrogenation of alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites are involved in the oligomerization and cyclization of olefins. The activation and cleavage of CH bonds of alkanes occur predominantly at the Brnsted acid sites. Ga or Zn act as portholes and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H atoms, leading to the formation of olefins and aromatic species. The activation of the alkane by the Brnsted acid sites is independent of metal species present in zeolites. Zn has a promoting effect on the reaction of H/D hydrogen exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, increasing the reaction rates and lowering apparent activation energies. The CH bonds in alkanes break and form more easily and reversibly with intermediate involvement of Zn species. The intermediate formation of an olefin during dehydrogenation on Zn cations or the involvement of Zn alkyl species, formed by the dissociative adsorption of the alkane, is possible. The formation of Zn-alkyl species upon alkane adsorption on Zn-modified zeolites has been concluded from IR studies. For zeolites with a high Zn content, the formation of a Zn alkyl species occurs at small ZnO clusters inside the zeolite pores. Dissociative adsorption of the deuterated alkane on Zn oxide sites leads to Znalkyl species and ZnOD groups. Protonation of the Znalkyl species by the vicinal acidic OH group of the zeolite provides a transfer of protium from the SiOHAl group of the zeolite to the deuterated alkane molecule. The mechanism rationalizes the involvement of only the methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes in the exchange. The activation of CH bonds of small alkanes by zeolite Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, which form an intermediate with the alkane. The interaction of the Znalkyl species with zeolite acid sites can provide not only the H/D exchange reaction but also a dehydrogenation step, yielding olefins for the subsequent aromatization steps. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites in enhancing aromatization ability could be achieved by involvement in the activation of the alkane CH bond of both the zeolite acid OH groups and the Zn alkyl species formed on Zn sites. The intermediate or transition state, which involves the zeolite acid sites and the alkane-and-Zn sites leads to alkane dehydrogenation. The enhancement of alkane conversion towards the formation of aromatic molecules on Zn-modified zeolites could be achieved. The effect of Zn on the activation of alkane CH bonds by the catalysts Brnsted acid sites is shown to be the direct influence of Zn.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，对烷烃转化的机制和效率有重大影响。Zn-或Ga改性的沸石能有效地催化轻烷烃向芳烃的转化，具有高选择性。金属物种和酸位点在增强轻烷烃向芳烃的转化中的作用仍然是一个有争议的话题。金属物种负责烷烃的脱氢，而Brnsted酸位点则参与烯烃的寡聚和环化。烷烃的CH键的活化和裂解主要发生在Brnsted酸位点。Ga或Zn作为端口，催化H原子的重组解吸，形成二氢（H2）。氢物种的解吸使烯烃的形成平衡向正方向移动，抑制了向烃类物种的氢转移，导致乙烷和甲烷的形成。进一步的烯烃寡聚和脱氢环化产生芳烃物种。烷烃在沸石Brnsted酸位点的活化被假定为独立于沸石中存在的金属物种。Zn对C1n-C4烷烃的H/D氢交换反应有促进作用，显著提高了反应速率，降低了表观活化能。Zn物种的中间参与使烷烃中的CH键更容易和可逆地断裂和形成。在Zn阳离子上的脱氢过程中形成烯烃的中间体，或通过烷烃的解离吸附形成的Zn烷基物种的参与是可能的。从IR研究中得出，烷烃在Zn改性沸石上的吸附可以形成Zn-烷基物种。对于Zn含量高的沸石，Zn烷基物种的形成发生在沸石孔内的小ZnO簇中。在Zn氧化物位点上对氘化烷烃的解离吸附导致Znalkyl物种和ZnOD基团的形成。Znalkyl物种通过沸石的邻近酸性OH基团的质子化，伴随着从ZnOD到沸石酸位点的氘的逆向转移，最终提供了从沸石的SiOHAl基团到氘化烷烃分子的质子转移。该机制也解释了只有C3和n-C4烷烃的甲基基团参与交换的现象。从我们的数据中可以清楚地看出，沸石Brnsted酸位点对小烷烃的CH键的活化依赖于与烷烃形成中间体的Zn物种。可以假设，Znalkyl物种与沸石酸位点的相互作用不仅可以提供H/D交换反应，还可以提供一个脱氢步骤，产生烯烃，用于随后的芳构化步骤。Zn和Brnsted位点在增强芳构化能力方面的协同作用可以通过在Zn位点形成的Zn烷基物种和沸石酸OH基团的参与来实现，以激活烷烃的CH键。涉及沸石酸位点和烷烃和Zn位点的中间体或过渡态导致烷烃的脱氢，可能是通过能量最有利的方式。Zn改性沸石上烷烃向芳烃分子的转化的增强是可以实现的。Zn对催化剂Brnsted酸位点的烷烃CH键的活化的影响被证明是Zn的直接影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
