<quotes>

[1] "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze the conversion of light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity."
[2] "The role of the metal species and acid sites of a zeolite in the enhancement of light alkane conversion to aromatics remains a subject of intense controversy."
[3] "On the one hand, there is agreement on the bifunctional nature of these catalysts, where the metal species are responsible for the dehydrogenation of alkanes, while the Brnsted acid sites are involved in the oligomerization and cyclization of olefins."
[4] "On the other hand, it has been claimed that the activation and cleavage of CH bonds of alkanes occurs predominantly at the Brnsted acid sites."
[5] "Ga or Zn act as portholes and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed CH bond cleavage, as dihydrogen (H2)."
[6] "Desorption of hydrogen species shifts the equilibrium towards the formation of olefins and suppresses hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbon species, leading to ethane and methane."
[7] "Further olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization give aromatic species."
[8] "The activation of the alkane by the Brnsted acid sites is assumed to be independent of metal species present in zeolites."
[9] "The application of this technique to the study of H/D exchange on Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites could provide a pathway for clarifying a possible role of metal species in the activation of small alkane molecules by zeolite acid SiOHAl groups that act as Brnsted sites."
[10] "The influence of Zn on alkane activation has been rationalized by dissociative adsorption of alkanes on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, which precedes the interaction of alkane with Brnsted acid sites."
[11] "The activation of CH bonds of small alkanes by zeolite Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, which form an intermediate with the alkane."
[12] "The intermediate or transition state, which involves the zeolite acid sites and the alkane-and-Zn sites leads to alkane dehydrogenationpresumably by the energetically most favorable way."
[13] "The enhancement of alkane conversion towards the formation of aromatic molecules on Zn-modified zeolites could be achieved."
[14] "The effect of Zn, which earlier was attributed either to the dehydrogenation ability of the loaded metal or its ability to afford the recombinative desorption of H atoms, is shown to be the direct influence of Zn on the activation of alkane CH bonds by the catalysts Brnsted acid sites."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites are effective catalysts for converting light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The role of metal species and acid sites in enhancing light alkane conversion to aromatics is controversial. Metal species are responsible for dehydrogenation, while Brnsted acid sites are involved in the oligomerization and cyclization of olefins. However, it is claimed that the activation and cleavage of CH bonds of alkanes predominantly occurs at Brnsted acid sites. Ga or Zn catalyze the recombinative desorption of H atoms, which shifts the equilibrium towards olefin formation and suppresses hydrogen transfer, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization result in aromatic species. The activation of alkanes by Brnsted acid sites is assumed to be independent of metal species. Studying H/D exchange on Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites can clarify the role of metal species in the activation of small alkane molecules. The influence of Zn on alkane activation is explained by the dissociative adsorption of alkanes on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, which precedes interaction with Brnsted acid sites. The activation of CH bonds of small alkanes by zeolite Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species forming an intermediate with the alkane. The intermediate or transition state involving zeolite acid sites and alkane-and-Zn sites leads to alkane dehydrogenation. The enhancement of alkane conversion towards aromatic molecules on Zn-modified zeolites can be achieved. The effect of Zn, previously attributed to dehydrogenation ability or recombinative desorption of H atoms, is shown to be the direct influence of Zn on the activation of alkane CH bonds by the catalysts' Brnsted acid sites.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 锌或镓改性的沸石是有效的催化剂，能够将轻烷烃转化为芳香烃，具有高选择性。金属物种和酸位点在增强轻烷烃转化为芳香烃中的作用存在争议。金属物种负责脱氢，而布伦斯特酸位点则参与烯烃的寡聚化和环化。然而，有人声称，烷烃的CH键的活化和裂解主要发生在布伦斯特酸位点。镓或锌催化H原子的重组解吸，这将平衡转移到烯烃的形成，并抑制氢向烃类物种的转移，导致乙烷和甲烷的生成。进一步的烯烃寡聚化和脱氢环化产生芳香族物种。烷烃由布伦斯特酸位点的活化被假定为独立于沸石中存在的金属物种。在锌或镓改性的沸石上研究H/D交换可以澄清金属物种在小烷烃分子活化中的可能作用。锌对烷烃活化的影响可以通过烷烃在沸石孔隙内的锌氧化物物种上的解离吸附来解释，这发生在与布伦斯特酸位点的相互作用之前。小烷烃的CH键由沸石布伦斯特酸位点的活化依赖于与烷烃形成中间体的锌物种。涉及沸石酸位点和烷烃-锌位点的中间体或过渡状态导致烷烃脱氢。在锌改性的沸石上，烷烃向芳香分子的转化增强可以实现。锌的作用，以前归因于负载金属的脱氢能力和H原子的重组解吸，被证明是锌对催化剂的布伦斯特酸位点活化烷烃CH键的直接影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
