<quotes>

[1] "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze the conversion of light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity."
[2] "The role of the metal species and acid sites of a zeolite in the enhancement of light alkane conversion to aromatics remains a subject of intense controversy."
[3] "On the one hand, there is agreement on the bifunctional nature of these catalysts, where the metal species are responsible for the dehydrogenation of alkanes, while the Brnsted acid sites are involved in the oligomerization and cyclization of olefins."
[4] "On the other hand, it has been claimed that the activation and cleavage of CH bonds of alkanes occurs predominantly at the Brnsted acid sites."
[5] "Ga or Zn act as portholes and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed CH bond cleavage, as dihydrogen (H2)."
[6] "Desorption of hydrogen species shifts the equilibrium towards the formation of olefins and suppresses hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbon species, leading to ethane and methane."
[7] "Further olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization give aromatic species."
[8] "The activation of the alkane by the Brnsted acid sites is assumed to be independent of metal species present in zeolites."
[9] "A significant increase in the reaction rates with lowering apparent activation energies demonstrate the promoting effect of Zn on the reaction of H/D hydrogen exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes."
[10] "The acceleration of H/D exchange, coupled with the decreased activation energy for Zn-modified zeolites, demonstrates that the CH bonds in alkanes break and form more easily and reversibly with intermediate involvement of Zn species."
[11] "The influence of Zn on alkane activation has been rationalized by dissociative adsorption of alkanes on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, which precedes the interaction of alkane with Brnsted acid sites."
[12] "The intermediate formation of an olefin during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, representing the Lewis acid sites, or the involvement of Zn alkyl species, formed by the dissociative adsorption of the alkane."
[13] "The pathway of H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes with the involvement of Zn alkyl species is outlined in Scheme 1 (Pathway 1)."
[14] "Dissociative adsorption of the deuterated alkane on Zn oxide sites, which precedes H/D exchange, leads to Znalkyl species and ZnOD groups."
[15] "Protonation of the Znalkyl species by the vicinal acidic OH group of the zeolite with synchronous reverse transfer of the deuterium from the ZnOD to the zeolite acid site, finally provide a transfer of protium from the SiOHAl group of the zeolite to the deuterated alkane molecule."
[16] "The mechanism also rationalizes the involvement of only the methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes in the exchange."
[17] "The data are an experimental demonstration of the synergetic action suggested earlier of Zn species and acid sites in the breaking and formation of the CH bonds in alkane during its activation."
[18] "It becomes clear from our data that the activation of CH bonds of small alkanes by zeolite Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, which form an intermediate with the alkane."
[19] "The interaction of the Znalkyl species with zeolite acid sites can provide not only the H/D exchange reaction, but also a dehydrogenation step (Scheme 1, Pathway 2), yielding olefins for the subsequent aromatization steps."
[20] "Pathway 2 rationalizes the synergy of the acid and the Zn-sites (as ZnO clusters) for the effective aromatization of small alkanes by Zn-modified zeolites."
[21] "Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites in enhancing aromatization ability could be achieved by involvement in the activation of the alkane CH bond of both the zeolite acid OH groups and the Zn alkyl species formed on Zn sites."
[22] "The intermediate or transition state, which involves the zeolite acid sites and the alkane-and-Zn sites leads to alkane dehydrogenationpresumably by the energetically most favorable way."
[23] "The enhancement of alkane conversion towards the formation of aromatic molecules on Zn-modified zeolites could be achieved."
[24] "The effect of Zn, which earlier was attributed either to the dehydrogenation ability of the loaded metal or its ability to afford the recombinative desorption of H atoms, is shown to be the direct influence of Zn on the activation of alkane CH bonds by the catalysts Brnsted acid sites."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, such as Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, significantly influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. These catalysts effectively catalyze the conversion of light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The role of metal species and acid sites in enhancing light alkane conversion to aromatics is a subject of intense controversy. Metal species are responsible for the dehydrogenation of alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites are involved in the oligomerization and cyclization of olefins. Ga or Zn act as portholes, catalyzing the recombinative desorption of H atoms, shifting the equilibrium towards the formation of olefins and suppressing hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbon species. The activation of alkanes by Brnsted acid sites is assumed to be independent of metal species. Zn has a promoting effect on the reaction of H/D hydrogen exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, accelerating the exchange and decreasing the activation energy. The influence of Zn on alkane activation is rationalized by dissociative adsorption of alkanes on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores. The pathway of H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes involves the formation of Zn alkyl species and ZnOD groups. Protonation of the Zn alkyl species by the vicinal acidic OH group of the zeolite leads to the transfer of protium from the SiOHAl group of the zeolite to the deuterated alkane molecule. The mechanism rationalizes the involvement of only the methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes in the exchange. The activation of CH bonds of small alkanes by zeolite Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, which form an intermediate with the alkane. The interaction of the Zn alkyl species with zeolite acid sites can provide not only the H/D exchange reaction but also a dehydrogenation step, yielding olefins for subsequent aromatization steps. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites in enhancing aromatization ability could be achieved by involvement in the activation of the alkane CH bond of both the zeolite acid OH groups and the Zn alkyl species formed on Zn sites. The enhancement of alkane conversion towards the formation of aromatic molecules on Zn-modified zeolites could be achieved. The effect of Zn on the activation of alkane CH bonds by the catalysts Brnsted acid sites is shown to be the direct influence of Zn.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件,如Zn-或Ga-改性的沸石,对烷烃转化的机理和效率有重大影响。这些催化剂能有效地催化轻烷烃向芳香烃的高选择性转化。金属物种和酸位点在增强轻烷烃向芳香烃转化中的作用是一个激烈争议的主题。金属物种负责烷烃的脱氢,而Brnsted酸位点则参与烯烃的寡聚和环化。Ga或Zn作为端口,催化H原子的重组解吸,将平衡向烯烃的形成和抑制氢向烃类物种的转移转移。烷烃通过Brnsted酸位点的活化被认为独立于沸石中存在的金属物种。Zn对C1n-C4烷烃的H/D氢交换反应有促进作用,加速了交换并降低了活化能。Zn对烷烃活化的影响被解释为烷烃在沸石孔隙内的Zn氧化物物种上的解离吸附。C1n-C4烷烃的H/D交换途径涉及Zn烷基物种和ZnOD基团的形成。Zn烷基物种通过沸石的邻近酸性OH基团的质子化,导致从沸石的SiOHAl基团向氘化烷烃分子转移质子。该机制解释了只有C3和n-C4烷烃的甲基基团参与交换。小烷烃的CH键通过沸石Brnsted酸位点的活化依赖于与烷烃形成中间体的Zn物种。Zn烷基物种与沸石酸位点的相互作用不仅可以提供H/D交换反应,还可以提供脱氢步骤,为后续的芳构化步骤产生烯烃。Zn和Brnsted位点在增强芳构化能力方面的协同作用可以通过涉及沸石酸OH基团和在Zn位点上形成的Zn烷基物种的烷烃CH键的活化来实现。Zn改性沸石上烷烃向芳香分子转化的增强可以实现。Zn对催化剂Brnsted酸位点活化烷烃CH键的直接影响被证明是Zn的直接影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
