<quotes>

[1] "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze the conversion of light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity."
[2] "The role of the metal species and acid sites of a zeolite in the enhancement of light alkane conversion to aromatics remains a subject of intense controversy."
[3] "On the one hand, there is agreement on the bifunctional nature of these catalysts, where the metal species are responsible for the dehydrogenation of alkanes, while the Brnsted acid sites are involved in the oligomerization and cyclization of olefins."
[4] "On the other hand, it has been claimed that the activation and cleavage of CH bonds of alkanes occurs predominantly at the Brnsted acid sites."
[5] "Ga or Zn act as portholes and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed CH bond cleavage, as dihydrogen (H2)."
[6] "Desorption of hydrogen species shifts the equilibrium towards the formation of olefins and suppresses hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbon species, leading to ethane and methane."
[7] "Further olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization give aromatic species."
[8] "In both cases, the activation of the alkane by the Brnsted acid sites is assumed to be independent of metal species present in zeolites."
[9] "The application of this technique to the study of H/D exchange on Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites could provide a pathway for clarifying a possible role of metal species in the activation of small alkane molecules by zeolite acid SiOHAl groups that act as Brnsted sites."
[10] "Herein, we have performed a comparative analysis of the kinetics of H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes with the purely acidic and the Zn-modified zeolites BEA and ZSM-5, respectively."
[11] "This allows us to clarify important mechanistic details of alkane activation by Brnsted acid sites upon modification of the zeolites by Zn."
[12] "The influence of Zn on alkane activation has been rationalized by dissociative adsorption of alkanes on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, which precedes the interaction of alkane with Brnsted acid sites."
[13] "The activation energy of the exchange is 107 108 kJmol1 for both propane and n-butane."
[14] "When zeolites are modified with Zn, the picture of hydrogen exchange changes."
[15] "The methyl groups of these alkanes are preferentially involved in the exchange."
[16] "While apparent activation energies are similar or notably lower for Zn-modified zeolites in comparison to acid-form zeolites, the rate of the exchange is essentially higher for Zn-modified zeolites within the same temperature range."
[17] "The temperature threshold of the reaction onset decreases by 50 K."
[18] "The activation energies of the exchange for methane on H-BEA (138 kJmol1) and H-ZSM-5 (118 kJmol1) are similar to those earlier identified for methane and ethane on acid-form zeolites."
[19] "The rate of H/D exchange increases by more than two orders of magnitude for methane and ethane when the zeolite is modified with Zn."
[20] "The apparent activation energies decrease to 8688 kJmol1."
[21] "A significant increase in the reaction rates with lowering apparent activation energies demonstrate the promoting effect of Zn on the reaction of H/D hydrogen exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes."
[22] "The acceleration of H/D exchange, coupled with the decreased activation energy for Zn-modified zeolites, demonstrates that the CH bonds in alkanes break and form more easily and reversibly with intermediate involvement of Zn species."
[23] "The possibility of the formation of Zn-alkyl species upon alkane adsorption on Zn-modified zeolites was concluded from IR studies earlier and we confirmed their formation by 13C MAS NMR for the zeolite samples used in this study."
[24] "For zeolites with a high Zn content (78 wt%, in our case), the formation of a Zn alkyl species presumably occurs at small ZnO clusters existing inside the zeolite pores."
[25] "Dissociative adsorption of the deuterated alkane on Zn oxide sites, which precedes H/D exchange, leads to Znalkyl species and ZnOD groups."
[26] "Protonation of the Znalkyl species by the vicinal acidic OH group of the zeolite with synchronous reverse transfer of the deuterium from the ZnOD to the zeolite acid site, finally provide a transfer of protium from the SiOHAl group of the zeolite to the deuterated alkane molecule."
[27] "This mechanism could provide significantly different kinetic parameters for the exchange from those for purely acidic zeolite."
[28] "The mechanism also rationalizes the involvement of only the methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes in the exchange."
[29] "So, the data are an experimental demonstration of the synergetic action suggested earlier of Zn species and acid sites in the breaking and formation of the CH bonds in alkane during its activation."
[30] "It becomes clear from our data that the activation of CH bonds of small alkanes by zeolite Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, which form an intermediate with the alkane."
[31] "One can assume that the interaction of the Znalkyl species with zeolite acid sites can provide not only the H/D exchange reaction, but also a dehydrogenation step, yielding olefins for the subsequent aromatization steps."
[32] "Pathway 2 rationalizes the synergy of the acid and the Zn-sites (as ZnO clusters) for the effective aromatization of small alkanes by Zn-modified zeolites."
[33] "Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites in enhancing aromatization ability could be achieved by involvement in the activation of the alkane CH bond of both the zeolite acid OH groups and the Zn alkyl species formed on Zn sites."
[34] "The intermediate or transition state, which involves the zeolite acid sites and the alkane-and-Zn sites leads to alkane dehydrogenation presumably by the energetically most favorable way."
[35] "Thus, the enhancement of alkane conversion towards the formation of aromatic molecules on Zn-modified zeolites could be achieved."
[36] "So, the effect of Zn, which earlier was attributed either to the dehydrogenation ability of the loaded metal or its ability to afford the recombinative desorption of H atoms, is shown to be the direct influence of Zn on the activation of alkane CH bonds by the catalysts Brnsted acid sites."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze the conversion of light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The role of metal species and acid sites in enhancing light alkane conversion to aromatics is a subject of intense controversy. Metal species are responsible for the dehydrogenation of alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites are involved in the oligomerization and cyclization of olefins. The activation and cleavage of CH bonds of alkanes occur predominantly at the Brnsted acid sites. Ga or Zn act as portholes and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed CH bond cleavage, as dihydrogen (H2). Desorption of hydrogen species shifts the equilibrium towards the formation of olefins and suppresses hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbon species, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization give aromatic species. The activation of the alkane by the Brnsted acid sites is assumed to be independent of metal species present in zeolites. The application of H/D exchange on Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites could provide a pathway for clarifying a possible role of metal species in the activation of small alkane molecules by zeolite acid SiOHAl groups that act as Brnsted sites. A comparative analysis of the kinetics of H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes with the purely acidic and the Zn-modified zeolites BEA and ZSM-5 allows us to clarify important mechanistic details of alkane activation by Brnsted acid sites upon modification of the zeolites by Zn. The influence of Zn on alkane activation has been rationalized by dissociative adsorption of alkanes on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, which precedes the interaction of alkane with Brnsted acid sites. The activation energy of the exchange is 107 108 kJmol1 for both propane and n-butane. When zeolites are modified with Zn, the picture of hydrogen exchange changes. The methyl groups of these alkanes are preferentially involved in the exchange. While apparent activation energies are similar or notably lower for Zn-modified zeolites in comparison to acid-form zeolites, the rate of the exchange is essentially higher for Zn-modified zeolites within the same temperature range. The temperature threshold of the reaction onset decreases by 50 K. The activation energies of the exchange for methane on H-BEA (138 kJmol1) and H-ZSM-5 (118 kJmol1) are similar to those earlier identified for methane and ethane on acid-form zeolites. The rate of H/D exchange increases by more than two orders of magnitude for methane and ethane when the zeolite is modified with Zn. The apparent activation energies decrease to 8688 kJmol1. A significant increase in the reaction rates with lowering apparent activation energies demonstrate the promoting effect of Zn on the reaction of H/D hydrogen exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes. The acceleration of H/D exchange, coupled with the decreased activation energy for Zn-modified zeolites, demonstrates that the CH bonds in alkanes break and form more easily and reversibly with intermediate involvement of Zn species. The possibility of the formation of Zn-alkyl species upon alkane adsorption on Zn-modified zeolites was concluded from IR studies earlier and confirmed by 13C MAS NMR for the zeolite samples used in this study. For zeolites with a high Zn content (78 wt%, in our case), the formation of a Zn alkyl species presumably occurs at small ZnO clusters existing inside the zeolite pores. Dissociative adsorption of the deuterated alkane on Zn oxide sites, which precedes H/D exchange, leads to Znalkyl species and ZnOD groups. Protonation of the Znalkyl species by the vicinal acidic OH group of the zeolite with synchronous reverse transfer of the deuterium from the ZnOD to the zeolite acid site, finally provide a transfer of protium from the SiOHAl group of the zeolite to the deuterated alkane molecule. This mechanism could provide significantly different kinetic parameters for the exchange from those for purely acidic zeolite. The mechanism also rationalizes the involvement of only the methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes in the exchange. So, the data are an experimental demonstration of the synergetic action suggested earlier of Zn species and acid sites in the breaking and formation of the CH bonds in alkane during its activation. It becomes clear from our data that the activation of CH bonds of small alkanes by zeolite Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, which form an intermediate with the alkane. One can assume that the interaction of the Znalkyl species with zeolite acid sites can provide not only the H/D exchange reaction, but also a dehydrogenation step, yielding olefins for the subsequent aromatization steps. Pathway 2 rationalizes the synergy of the acid and the Zn-sites (as ZnO clusters) for the effective aromatization of small alkanes by Zn-modified zeolites. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites in enhancing aromatization ability could be achieved by involvement in the activation of the alkane CH bond of both the zeolite acid OH groups and the Zn alkyl species formed on Zn sites. The intermediate or transition state, which involves the zeolite acid sites and the alkane-and-Zn sites leads to alkane dehydrogenation presumably by the energetically most favorable way. Thus, the enhancement of alkane conversion towards the formation of aromatic molecules on Zn-modified zeolites could be achieved. So, the effect of Zn, which earlier was attributed either to the dehydrogenation ability of the loaded metal or its ability to afford the recombinative desorption of H atoms, is shown to be the direct influence of Zn on the activation of alkane CH bonds by the catalysts Brnsted acid sites.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，对烷烃转化的机制和效率有重大影响。Zn-或Ga改性的沸石能有效地催化轻烷烃转化为芳香烃，具有高选择性。金属物种和酸位点在增强轻烷烃转化为芳香烃中的作用仍然是一个激烈争议的主题。金属物种负责烷烃的脱氢，而Brnsted酸位点则参与烯烃的寡聚和环化。烷烃的CH键的活化和裂解主要发生在Brnsted酸位点。Ga或Zn作为端口，催化从酸催化CH键裂解形成的H原子的重组解吸，作为二氢（H2）。氢物种的解吸使平衡向烯烃的形成方向移动，并抑制氢向烃类物种的转移，导致乙烷和甲烷的形成。进一步的烯烃寡聚和脱氢环化产生芳香族物种。在两种情况下，假设沸石酸位点对烷烃的活化独立于沸石中存在的金属物种。在Zn-或Ga改性沸石上应用H/D交换研究可以为澄清金属物种在沸石酸SiOHAl位点作为Brnsted位点活化小烷烃分子中的可能作用提供途径。我们对C1n-C4烷烃与纯酸性和Zn改性沸石BEA和ZSM-5的H/D交换动力学进行了比较分析。这使我们能够澄清在沸石被Zn改性时，烷烃通过Brnsted酸位点活化的重要机制细节。Zn对烷烃活化的影响被合理化为烷烃在沸石孔隙内的Zn氧化物种上的解离吸附，这先于烷烃与Brnsted酸位点的相互作用。交换的活化能对于丙烷和n-丁烷都是107 108 kJmol1。当沸石用Zn改性时，氢交换的图景发生了变化。这些烷烃的甲基组分优先参与交换。虽然对于Zn改性沸石与酸性沸石相比，表观活化能相似或明显较低，但在相同的温度范围内，Zn改性沸石的交换速率明显较高。反应开始的温度阈值降低了50 K。甲烷在H-BEA（138 kJmol1）和H-ZSM-5（118 kJmol1）上的交换活化能与先前在酸性沸石上确定的甲烷和乙烷的活化能相似。当沸石用Zn改性时，甲烷和乙烷的H/D交换速率增加了两个数量级以上。表观活化能降低到8688 kJmol1。反应速率的显著增加和表观活化能的降低表明Zn对C1n-C4烷烃的H/D氢交换反应有促进作用。H/D交换的加速，加上Zn改性沸石的活化能降低，表明烷烃中的CH键在Zn物种的中间参与下更容易和可逆地断裂和形成。在先前的红外研究中，得出结论，在Zn改性沸石上吸附烷烃时，可以形成Zn-烷基物种，我们通过13C MAS NMR对本研究中使用的沸石样品确认了它们的形成。对于Zn含量高的沸石（在我们的案例中为78 wt%），Zn烷基物种的形成可能发生在沸石孔隙内存在的小ZnO簇上。在Zn氧化位点上解离吸附的氘化烷烃，先于H/D交换，导致Znalkyl物种和ZnOD基团。Znalkyl物种通过邻近的沸石酸性OH基团的质子化，伴随着从ZnOD到沸石酸位点的氘的同步逆向转移，最终从沸石的SiOHAl基团向氘化烷烃分子提供质子。这种机制可以为交换提供与纯酸性沸石明显不同的动力学参数。该机制还合理化了仅C3和n-C4烷烃的甲基组分参与交换。因此，这些数据是实验上对Zn物种和酸位点在烷烃活化期间CH键的断裂和形成的协同作用的早期建议的证明。从我们的数据中可以清楚地看出，沸石Brnsted酸位点对小烷烃的CH键的活化取决于与烷烃形成中间体的Zn物种。可以假设，Znalkyl物种与沸石酸位点的相互作用不仅可以提供H/D交换反应，还可以提供脱氢步骤，产生烯烃，用于随后的芳构化步骤。路径2合理化了酸和Zn位点（作为ZnO簇）之间的协同作用，以有效地芳构化小烷烃。Zn和Brnsted位点在增强芳构化能力方面的协同作用可以通过在Zn位点形成的Zn烷基物种和沸石酸OH基团的参与来实现，以活化烷烃CH键。涉及沸石酸位点和烷烃和Zn位点的中间体或过渡态导致烷烃脱氢，可能是通过能量最有利的方式。因此，Zn改性沸石上烷烃向芳香分子的转化可以得到增强。因此，Zn的影响，以前归因于负载金属的脱氢能力或其提供H原子重组解吸的能力，被证明是Zn对催化剂Brnsted酸位点活化烷烃CH键的直接影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
