<quotes>

[1] "Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites effectively catalyze the conversion of light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity."
[2] "The role of the metal species and acid sites of a zeolite in the enhancement of light alkane conversion to aromatics remains a subject of intense controversy."
[3] "On the one hand, there is agreement on the bifunctional nature of these catalysts, where the metal species are responsible for the dehydrogenation of alkanes, while the Brnsted acid sites are involved in the oligomerization and cyclization of olefins."
[4] "On the other hand, it has been claimed that the activation and cleavage of CH bonds of alkanes occurs predominantly at the Brnsted acid sites."
[5] "Ga or Zn act as portholes and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed CH bond cleavage, as dihydrogen (H2)."
[6] "Desorption of hydrogen species shifts the equilibrium towards the formation of olefins and suppresses hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbon species, leading to ethane and methane."
[7] "Further olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization give aromatic species."
[8] "In both cases, the activation of the alkane by the Brnsted acid sites is assumed to be independent of metal species present in zeolites."
[9] "A significant increase in the reaction rates with lowering apparent activation energies demonstrate the promoting effect of Zn on the reaction of H/D hydrogen exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes."
[10] "The acceleration of H/D exchange, coupled with the decreased activation energy for Zn-modified zeolites, demonstrates that the CH bonds in alkanes break and form more easily and reversibly with intermediate involvement of Zn species."
[11] "The influence of Zn on alkane activation has been rationalized by dissociative adsorption of alkanes on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, which precedes the interaction of alkane with Brnsted acid sites."
[12] "The intermediate formation of an olefin during dehydrogenation on Zn cations, representing the Lewis acid sites, or the involvement of Zn alkyl species, formed by the dissociative adsorption of the alkane."
[13] "The possibility of the formation of Zn-alkyl species upon alkane adsorption on Zn-modified zeolites was concluded from IR studies earlier and we confirmed their formation by 13C MAS NMR for the zeolite samples used in this study."
[14] "For zeolites with a high Zn content (78 wt%, in our case), the formation of a Zn alkyl species presumably occurs at small ZnO clusters existing inside the zeolite pores."
[15] "The pathway of H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes with the involvement of Zn alkyl species is outlined in Scheme 1 (Pathway 1)."
[16] "Dissociative adsorption of the deuterated alkane on Zn oxide sites, which precedes H/D exchange, leads to Zn-alkyl species and ZnOD groups."
[17] "Protonation of the Zn-alkyl species by the vicinal acidic OH group of the zeolite with synchronous reverse transfer of the deuterium from the ZnOD to the zeolite acid site, finally provide a transfer of protium from the SiOHAl group of the zeolite to the deuterated alkane molecule."
[18] "The mechanism also rationalizes the involvement of only the methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes in the exchange."
[19] "Only the hydrogens of the CH2 group, attached to Zn directly, can be involved in the exchange."
[20] "So, the data are an experimental demonstration of the synergetic action suggested earlier of Zn species and acid sites in the breaking and formation of the CH bonds in alkane during its activation."
[21] "It becomes clear from our data that the activation of CH bonds of small alkanes by zeolite Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, which form an intermediate with the alkane."
[22] "One can assume that the interaction of the Zn-alkyl species with zeolite acid sites can provide not only the H/D exchange reaction, but also a dehydrogenation step (Scheme 1, Pathway 2), yielding olefins for the subsequent aromatization steps."
[23] "Pathway 2 rationalizes the synergy of the acid and the Zn-sites (as ZnO clusters) for the effective aromatization of small alkanes by Zn-modified zeolites."
[24] "Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites in enhancing aromatization ability could be achieved by involvement in the activation of the alkane CH bond of both the zeolite acid OH groups and the Zn alkyl species formed on Zn sites."
[25] "The intermediate or transition state, which involves the zeolite acid sites and the alkane-and-Zn sites leads to alkane dehydrogenation presumably by the energetically most favorable way."
[26] "Thus, the enhancement of alkane conversion towards the formation of aromatic molecules on Zn-modified zeolites could be achieved."
[27] "So, the effect of Zn, which earlier was attributed either to the dehydrogenation ability of the loaded metal or its ability to afford the recombinative desorption of H atoms, is shown to be the direct influence of Zn on the activation of alkane CH bonds by the catalysts Brnsted acid sites."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The composition and structure of metal-based catalysts, such as Zn- or Ga-modified zeolites, play a significant role in the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. These catalysts are effective in converting light alkanes to aromatics with high selectivity. The role of metal species and acid sites in enhancing the conversion of light alkanes to aromatics is a subject of ongoing debate. Metal species are responsible for the dehydrogenation of alkanes, while Brnsted acid sites are involved in the oligomerization and cyclization of olefins. The activation and cleavage of CH bonds of alkanes occur predominantly at the Brnsted acid sites. Ga or Zn act as portholes, catalyzing the recombinative desorption of hydrogen atoms, which shifts the equilibrium towards the formation of olefins and suppresses hydrogen transfer to hydrocarbon species, leading to ethane and methane. Further olefin oligomerization and dehydrocyclization result in aromatic species. The activation of the alkane by the Brnsted acid sites is assumed to be independent of metal species present in zeolites. Zn has a significant promoting effect on the reaction of H/D hydrogen exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes, as demonstrated by an increase in the reaction rates and a decrease in apparent activation energies. The CH bonds in alkanes break and form more easily and reversibly with intermediate involvement of Zn species. The influence of Zn on alkane activation is rationalized by the dissociative adsorption of alkanes on Zn oxide species inside zeolite pores, which precedes the interaction of alkane with Brnsted acid sites. The formation of Zn-alkyl species upon alkane adsorption on Zn-modified zeolites is confirmed by IR studies and 13C MAS NMR. For zeolites with a high Zn content, the formation of a Zn alkyl species occurs at small ZnO clusters inside the zeolite pores. The pathway of H/D exchange for C1n-C4 alkanes involves the formation of Zn-alkyl species and ZnOD groups. Protonation of the Zn-alkyl species by the vicinal acidic OH group of the zeolite, with synchronous reverse transfer of deuterium from the ZnOD to the zeolite acid site, results in the transfer of protium from the SiOHAl group of the zeolite to the deuterated alkane molecule. The mechanism rationalizes the involvement of only the methyl groups of C3 and n-C4 alkanes in the exchange. The data demonstrate the synergetic action of Zn species and acid sites in the breaking and formation of the CH bonds in alkane during its activation. The activation of CH bonds of small alkanes by zeolite Brnsted acid sites depends on Zn species, which form an intermediate with the alkane. The interaction of the Zn-alkyl species with zeolite acid sites can provide not only the H/D exchange reaction but also a dehydrogenation step, yielding olefins for subsequent aromatization steps. The synergy of the acid and the Zn-sites (as ZnO clusters) for the effective aromatization of small alkanes by Zn-modified zeolites is rationalized by Pathway 2. Synergetic action of Zn and Brnsted sites in enhancing aromatization ability can be achieved by the involvement of both the zeolite acid OH groups and the Zn alkyl species formed on Zn sites. The intermediate or transition state, which involves the zeolite acid sites and the alkane-and-Zn sites, leads to alkane dehydrogenation by the energetically most favorable way. The enhancement of alkane conversion towards the formation of aromatic molecules on Zn-modified zeolites can be achieved. The effect of Zn, earlier attributed to the dehydrogenation ability of the loaded metal or its ability to afford the recombinative desorption of H atoms, is shown to be the direct influence of Zn on the activation of alkane CH bonds by the catalysts Brnsted acid sites.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 金属基催化剂的组成和结构，如Zn-或Ga改性的沸石，在烷烃转化的机制和效率中扮演着重要角色。这些催化剂在将轻烷烃转化为芳香烃时具有高选择性。金属物种和酸位点在增强轻烷烃转化为芳香烃中的作用仍然是激烈争议的主题。金属物种负责烷烃的脱氢，而Brnsted酸位点则参与烯烃的寡聚和环化。烷烃的CH键的活化和裂解主要发生在Brnsted酸位点。Ga或Zn作为通道，催化氢原子的重组脱附，这将平衡向烯烃的形成方向移动，并抑制氢向烃类物种的转移，导致乙烷和甲烷的生成。进一步的烯烃寡聚和脱氢环化产生芳香族物种。沸石中存在金属物种时，烷烃在Brnsted酸位点的活化被认为是独立的。Zn对C1n-C4烷烃的H/D氢交换反应有显著的促进作用，这体现在反应速率的增加和表观活化能的降低。烷烃中的CH键在Zn物种的中间参与下，更容易且可逆地断裂和形成。Zn对烷烃活化的影响通过烷烃在沸石孔隙内的Zn氧化物物种上的解离吸附来解释，这发生在烷烃与Brnsted酸位点的相互作用之前。在Zn改性的沸石上，通过红外研究和13C MAS NMR确认了烷烃吸附时Zn烷基物种的形成。对于高Zn含量的沸石，Zn烷基物种的形成发生在沸石孔隙内的小ZnO簇中。C1n-C4烷烃的H/D交换途径涉及Zn-烷基物种和ZnOD基团的形成。Zn-烷基物种被沸石的邻近酸性OH基团质子化，伴随着ZnOD向沸石酸位点的反向氘转移，最终导致SiOHAl基团的质子向氘化烷烃分子的转移。该机制解释了C3和n-C4烷烃中仅甲基位点参与交换的现象。数据证明了Zn物种和酸位点在烷烃活化过程中CH键的断裂和形成中的协同作用。小烷烃的CH键在沸石Brnsted酸位点的活化依赖于与烷烃形成中间体的Zn物种。Zn-烷基物种与沸石酸位点的相互作用不仅可以提供H/D交换反应，还可以提供脱氢步骤，产生烯烃，为后续的芳构化步骤提供原料。通过路径2，酸和Zn位点（作为ZnO簇）之间的协同作用为Zn改性沸石有效芳构化小烷烃提供了合理解释。Zn和Brnsted位点在增强芳构化能力方面的协同作用可以通过烷烃CH键活化中沸石酸OH基团和Zn位点上形成的Zn烷基物种的参与来实现。涉及沸石酸位点和烷烃-Zn位点的中间体或过渡态，以最有利的能量方式导致烷烃脱氢。在Zn改性沸石上，烷烃向芳香分子的转化可以实现。Zn的影响，之前归因于负载金属的脱氢能力或其提供H原子重组脱附的能力，被证明是Zn对催化剂Brnsted酸位点活化烷烃CH键的直接影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
