<quotes>
[1] "The goal of these calculations is to document several aspects of the chemistry of oxides doped substitutionally with dopants whose valence is lower by one than the valence of the cation they substitute (LVD1)."
[2] "First, we extrapolate numerous computations (by us and by others) and propose that all LVD1 dopants substantially activate the oxygen atoms at the surface of any doped oxide."
[3] "Second, we extrapolate the present calculations to postulate that the adsorption of an electron donor (H or CH3, in the examples given here) on the surface of an oxide doped with an LVD1 counteracts the effect of the dopant."
[4] "The reason for this chemical compensation effect can be understood as follows: having a lower valence than the cation it substitutes, an LVD creates a deficit of electrons in the surface. The oxygen atoms, which are very electrophilic, no longer bind as strongly to the doped surface and are therefore more inclined to react with adsorbates."
[5] "Adsorbing an electron donor on the doped oxide heals (in full or in part) the electron deficit, increasing the strength of the oxygen bond to the oxide and making it less reactive."
[6] "This crude picture is reinforced by the analysis of the partial density of states for all the systems studied here. The presence of an LVD on the surface produces a partially filled orbital in the valence band and the adsorption of a compensating electron donor fills this orbital, making the density of states of the compensated surface very similar to that of the undoped oxide."
[7] "In the case of LaCeO2 the molecular orbital in question is delocalized and consists mainly of oxygen atomic orbitals. This is why doping with La equally affects the reactivity of all oxygen atoms in the supercell used for calculations."
[8] "We are tempted to think that all LVDs have the ability to induce long-range modifications in the chemistry of the oxygen atoms on the surface, but we have not performed calculations that would back up this guess."
[9] "We conclude this section by discussing the implications that our findings have for catalysis by oxides doped with LVD1s."
[10] "The compensation effect proposed here introduces interesting complications in those reactions, catalyzed by an oxide doped with an LVD1, that involve the formation of electron-donating adsorbates (e.g., hydroxyls or organic radicals)."
[11] "Consider, for example, the activation of methane by an oxide catalyst doped with an LVD1. The presence of the LVD1 substantially increases the energy gained by the dissociative adsorption of methane."
[12] "Assuming that the EvansPolanyi rules work for this case, this will lower the activation energy for breaking the CH bond and oxides doped with LVD1 should be better catalysts for methane activation than the undoped oxides."
[13] "However, the dissociation produces H and CH3 bonded to the oxygen atoms of the surface, which act as compensating agents."
[14] "If these two species are not removed promptly from the surface, their presence substantially lower the activity of the surface (by the chemical compensation effect) and they poison the catalyst."
[15] "We may have a situation where the rate-limiting step is not the breaking of the CH bond but the removal of H and CH3 from the surface."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The aim of these calculations is to elucidate various facets of the chemistry of oxides doped with dopants having a valence one less than the cation they replace (LVD1).

2. We hypothesize that all LVD1 dopants significantly enhance the reactivity of the surface oxygen atoms across various doped oxides.

3. We propose that adsorbing an electron donor (H or CH3) on the surface of an oxide doped with an LVD1 mitigates the dopant's influence.

4. An LVD creates an electron deficiency in the surface, weakening the oxygen atoms' attachment to the doped oxide. 

5. An electron donor adsorbed on the doped oxide rectifies this deficiency, strengthening the oxygen bond and diminishing its reactivity.

6. The analysis of partial density of states confirms the electron deficiency induced by an LVD on the surface and the impact of an electron donor in restoring the oxide's original electronic state.

7. The LVD's influence on the reactivity of all oxygen atoms in the supercell used for calculations is due to the delocalized molecular orbital comprising oxygen atomic orbitals.

8. Our research findings suggest intriguing complexities in catalytic reactions involving oxides doped with LVD1s and electron-donating adsorbates.

9. The presence of an LVD1 significantly boosts the energy gained during the dissociative adsorption of methane.

10. Under the assumption that the EvansPolanyi rules apply, this enhancement lowers the activation energy for breaking the CH bond, making LVD1-doped oxides more effective catalysts for methane activation.

11. The dissociation of methane forms H and CH3 bound to the oxide surface, acting as compensating agents.

12. If these species remain on the surface, their presence reduces the catalyst's activity via the chemical compensation effect, potentially poisoning the catalyst.

13. The rate-limiting step in such reactions might not be the CH bond breaking but the removal of H and CH3 from the surface.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 这些计算的目标是阐述氧化物掺杂时，电荷比所取代阳离子电荷低一个单位的掺杂剂（LVD1）的化学性质的几个方面。

2. 我们假设所有LVD1掺杂剂显著激活任何掺杂氧化物表面的氧原子。

3. 我们提出，在氧化物表面吸附电子供体（H或CH3）可以抵消掺杂剂的影响。

4. LVD在表面创造了一个电子缺陷，削弱了氧原子与掺杂氧化物的结合。

5. 在掺杂氧化物上吸附的电子供体可以纠正这种缺陷，加强氧键并减少其反应性。

6. 分析部分能态证明了LVD在表面诱导的电子缺陷以及吸附电子供体恢复氧化物原始电子状态的影响。

7. LVD对超晶胞中所有氧原子反应性的影响归因于包含氧原子轨道的离域分子轨道。

8. 我们的发现揭示了氧化物掺杂LVD1并涉及电子供体（如羟基或有机自由基）的催化反应的复杂性。

9. LVD1的存在显著增加了甲烷解离吸附过程获得的能量。

10. 假设埃文斯·波兰尼规则适用于这种情况，这将降低断裂CH键的活化能，使LVD1掺杂的氧化物成为更好的甲烷激活催化剂。

11. 解离的甲烷形成与表面氧原子结合的H和CH3，作为补偿剂。

12. 如果这些物种留在表面上，它们的存在通过化学补偿效应降低催化剂活性，可能毒害催化剂。

13. 这样的反应中的限速步骤可能不是CH键断裂而是从表面去除H和CH3。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
