<quotes>
[Catalytic cracking reactions of C4-olefin over zeolites H-ZSM-5, H-mordenite and H-SAPO-34]
Propylene is one of the most important basic organic feedstocks and is currently faced with a serious supply deficit in petrochemical industry as a result of the huge growth in demand for propylene derivatives, e.g., polypropylene.
The traditional methods for increasing propylene yield are not satisfactory. For example, the naphtha steam cracking process, which produces about twice as much ethylene as propylene, is a costly route because of the enormous capital investment and the high feedstock cost.
Propylene could also be generated in FCC units but its yield is relatively low.
And the route for producing propylene from metathesis of ethylene and butylenes is not attractive since it will consume the same high-value ethylene as the main feedstock.
One of the most effective approaches for this purpose is to integrate the propylene production process into refinery or petrochemical plants from less valuable feedstock, such as catalytic cracking of mixed C4- or higher carbon olefins.
Zeolites, because of their outstanding thermal and hydrothermal stability, acidity and shape selectivity, have been widely used in industrial processes.
In this paper, we explored the possibility to produce propylene via catalytic cracking of surplus C4-olefin over three typical catalysts, namely H-mordenite, H-ZSM-5 and H-SAPO-34.
Among these samples, the H-ZSM-5 zeolite is by far the most appropriate zeolite catalyst in terms of both the resistance to deactivation and the propylene yield.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The document discusses the use of zeolites as catalysts for the catalytic cracking of C4-olefins to produce propylene. Among the three zeolites tested—H-mordenite, H-ZSM-5, and H-SAPO-34—the H-ZSM-5 zeolite was found to be the most effective catalyst for this purpose. This is due to its high stability and high propylene yield compared to the other two zeolites.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
本文讨论了使用沸石作为C4-烯烃催化裂解生产丙烯的催化剂。在测试的三种沸石——蒙脱石H、ZSM-5型和SAPO-34中，ZSM-5型沸石被发现是最有效的催化剂。这是由于其与另外两种沸石相比，具有更高的稳定性以及更高的丙烯产率。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
