<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges by providing an alternative method for propylene production that avoids thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and decreases carbon deposition. Innovative catalyst design strategies being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes include the use of V-based catalysts, which are reasonably priced and environmentally friendly. These catalysts have been used mainly in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions and have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH when supported on various materials such as SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3. The use of Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports have been reported for V-based catalysts, which exhibit attractive catalytic properties for PDH. Bai et al. investigated the catalytic performance and surface chemistry of mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts, where the catalysts achieved high catalytic activity and superior stability. Sokolov et al. systematically studied coke formation and catalyst stability for VOX/MCM-41, VOX/SiO2-Al2O3, and VOX/Al2O3 catalysts on PDH. By comparing the regeneration performance of V-, Cr-, and Pt-based catalysts, they found that the catalytic properties of the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst were stable for PDH in the absence of gas-phase O2 and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration. This full recovery was attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. also reported a relationship between catalyst deactivation and the VOX species in the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst, where the catalyst shows superior catalytic properties for PDH. Hence, it can be concluded that V-based catalysts could be a suitable candidate for a commercial PDH process.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在工业对丙烯需求增加和传统生产方法局限性的背景下，丙烷脱氢(PDH)技术通过提供一种避免热力学平衡限制和减少碳沉积的丙烯生产替代方法来应对这些挑战。为了克服失活问题、增强稳定性和提高循环利用性，正在开发的创新催化剂设计策略包括使用基于V的催化剂，这些催化剂价格合理，对环境友好。这些催化剂主要在氧化脱氢反应中使用，并且当支持在SiO2、ZrO2和Al2O3等不同材料上时，显示出对PDH的优越催化性能。Bai等人研究了以介孔γ-Al2O3为载体的基于V的催化剂的催化性能和表面化学，其中催化剂实现了高催化活性和优越的稳定性。Sokolov等人系统地研究了VOX/MCM-41、VOX/SiO2-Al2O3和VOX/Al2O3催化剂在PDH上的焦炭形成和催化剂稳定性。通过比较V、Cr和Pt基催化剂的再生性能，他们发现VOX/MCM-41催化剂在没有气相O2的情况下对PDH具有稳定的催化性能，并且可以通过氧化再生完全恢复。这种完全恢复归因于VOX物种的高稳定性。Rodemerck等人还报道了VOX/MCM-41催化剂中催化剂失活与VOX物种之间的关系，其中催化剂对PDH显示出优越的催化性能。因此，可以得出结论，基于V的催化剂可以作为商业PDH过程的合适候选者。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
