element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
Help
Search
My account
View PDF
Download full issue
Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical
Volume 381
, January 2014, Pages 138-147
Comparative study of bimetallic Pt-Sn catalysts supported on different supports for propane dehydrogenation
Author links open overlay panel
Yiwei Zhang
,
Yuming Zhou
,
Junjun Shi
,
Shijian Zhou
,
Xiaoli Sheng
,
Zewu Zhang
,
Sanming Xiang
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molcata.2013.10.007
Get rights and content
Highlights
•
PtSn catalysts supported on different supports are prepared.
•
Used support determines the porous character and the acidic properties of the catalyst.
•
Behaviors of metal dispersion and coking are obviously different on different supports.
•
Selected supports affect the reduction of tin species and the location of active sites effectively.
•
Mesoporous alumina supported catalyst exhibits the highest reaction stability and selectivity.
Abstract
Bimetallic PtSn catalysts supported on different supports (ZSM-5, γ-Al2O3, mesoporous alumina, SBA-15) were prepared and several techniques were employed to study the influence of different supports on the catalytic structure and reaction performances. According to the results of XRD, textual properties and acid measurements for the as-prepared catalysts, the selected support is the main factor to determine the porous character and the acidic properties of the corresponding catalyst. In our experiments, when the used support is mesoporous alumina, most uniform and narrow distribution of metallic particles can be obtained. Furthermore, the presence of this support promotes the occurrence of spillover hydrogen and strengthens the interaction between Sn species and the support. As a result, the oxidative state of Sn can be stabilized and the transformation of active sites is promoted, thus improving the catalytic stability and reaction selectivity. Compared with this, the existence of the strong acid sites in ZSM-5 induces more cracking reaction and the porous character of γ-Al2O3 increases the accumulation of the coke. Meanwhile, the use of SBA-15 support leads to the agglomeration of metallic particles and the easy reduction of tin species, which is disadvantageous to the reaction.
Graphical abstract
Download: Download high-res image (117KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Previous article in issue
Next article in issue
Keywords
SupportBimetallic PtSn catalystPropane dehydrogenationCatalytic activity
Loading...
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.