DOI: 10.1002/cphc.200800139
Rational Design of Platinum-Based Bimetallic Catalysts with Enhanced
Hydrogenation Activity
Michael P. Humbert, Luis E. Murillo, and Jingguang G. Chen*[a]
Catalytic hydrogenation reactions are among the most com-
monly practiced catalytic processes, including common steps
in organic synthesis, batch processes in pharmaceutical pro-
duction, stabilization of edible oils, and petroleum upgrading
processes. One of the key challenges is to identify the struc-
ture–property relationship for the design of catalysts with de-
sirable hydrogenation activity and selectivity. Herein, we dem-
onstrate the possibility to promote hydrogenation activity by
using two probe reactions, namely, low-temperature hydroge-
nation of the C=C bond in cyclohexene and hydrogenation of
the C=O bond in acrolein (CH2=CHCH=O).
In principle, the hydrogenation activity is related to the
binding strength and bonding orientation of the unsaturated
bond on the catalyst surface, both of which can be varied by
modifying the electronic properties of the catalysts through
the formation of bimetallic alloys. It is well known that many
bimetallic catalysts possess catalytic properties that are dis-
tinctly different from those of their parent metals.[1–5] In many
cases, these unique properties result in activities and/or selec-
tivities that exceed those achievable with a monometallic cata-
lyst. The unique catalytic properties have led to many funda-
mental studies on well-defined single-crystal bimetallic surfa-
ces. It is now generally accepted that there are two critical fac-
tors that contribute to the modification of the electronic and
chemical properties of a metal in a bimetallic surface. First, the
formation of the heterometallic bonds changes the electronic
environment of the metal surface, thus giving rise to modifica-
tions of its electronic structure through the ligand effect.
Second, the metal–metal bond length is typically different
from that of the parent metal, which results in a strain effect
that is known to modify the electronic structure of the metal
through changes in orbital overlap.[6,7] One commonly used pa-
rameter to measure changes in the electronic properties is the
position of the surface d-band center with respect to the
Fermi level. As this parameter has been shown to strongly cor-
relate with the ability of the bimetallic surface to bind with ad-
sorbates, such as atomic hydrogen and oxygen[6] and small al-
kenes,[5] the value of the surface d-band center may enable
first-principles predictions of bimetallic surfaces that provide
optimal binding strength and orientation to facilitate hydroge-
nation reactions.
Recent experimental and density functional theory (DFT)
studies of Pt–Ni bimetallic surfaces have provided a direct cor-
relation between the value of the surface d-band center and
the binding energy of atomic hydrogen and alkenes. The dep-
osition of Ni onto PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) at room temperature leads to Ni
atoms remaining on the surface, thus producing an overlayer
structure of the form Ni–Pt–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111). An increase in the deposi-
tion temperature to 600 K allows the Ni atoms to diffuse to the
subsurface, thereby producing a sandwich structure, namely,
Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111). Both experiments and DFT calculations have
shown that the location of the Ni atoms leads to very different
electronic
and
chemical
properties
of
Ni–Pt–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111)
and
Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) surfaces.[8] The presence of surface Ni atoms
moves the surface d-band center closer to the Fermi level rela-
tive to either PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) or NiACHTUNGTRENUNG(111), which leads to stronger bind-
ing
energies
of
atomic
hydrogen
and
alkenes
on
the
Ni–Pt–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) surface. In comparison, the presence of subsur-
face Ni atoms in the Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) bimetallic structure shifts
the d-band center away from the Fermi level, thus resulting in
weaker binding energies, which are responsible for a novel
low-temperature hydrogenation pathway that is not present
on PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) or NiACHTUNGTRENUNG(111).
Our main objectives are twofold. First, we compare two
other 3d metals, namely Fe and Co, with Ni/PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) to deter-
mine whether there is a general trend in controlling the bind-
ing energies of cyclohexene and acrolein on the surface
3d–Pt–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) and subsurface Pt–3d–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) structures. Second,
we use these bimetallic surfaces as model systems to deter-
mine how the hydrogenation activity is related to the value of
the surface d-band center on the various bimetallic surfaces.
These questions are answered though combined experimental
and theoretical studies.
Figure 1 shows the DFT results of cyclohexene binding on
the 3d–Pt–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) and Pt–3d–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) surfaces in the presence
of co-adsorbed atomic hydrogen to mimic the hydrogenation
conditions. The trends illustrate that the binding energy de-
creases as the surface d-band center moves away from the
Fermi level. Two separate linear lines are observed (one for sur-
faces terminated by Pt and the other for surfaces terminated
by 3d metals), which have been seen for the binding of other
adsorbates and attributed to different degrees of coupling of
adsorbates with 5d and 3d surface metals.[9] For a given bimet-
allic system, the binding energy of cyclohexene always follows
the trend of Pt–3d–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111)<PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111)<3d–Pt–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111). A similar
trend is observed in the DFT calculations of the binding energy
of atomic hydrogen on the bimetallic surfaces. This trend is
verified experimentally by means of temperature-programmed
desorption (TPD) experiments.[10] The most important conclu-
sion from Figure 1 is that the d-band center values—and
therefore the binding energies—can be controlled by the for-
mation of subsurface and surface bimetallic structures.
[a] M. P. Humbert, L. E. Murillo, Prof. J. G. Chen
Center for Catalytic Science and Technology
University of Delaware, Newark, DE 19716 (USA)
Fax: (+1)302-831-2085
E-mail: jgchen@udel.edu
1262
B 2008 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
ChemPhysChem 2008, 9, 1262 – 1264
Because both cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen are more
weakly bonded on Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) than on Ni–Pt–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111), one
might expect that the subsurface structure should be more ef-
fective in the hydrogenation of cyclohexene than the surface
structure. This is confirmed experimentally in Figure 2, which
shows the hydrogenation of cyclohexene with preadsorbed hy-
drogen on these two surfaces. The results obtained from
PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) and a NiACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) film are also included for comparison. The
hydrogenation yield, which is based on the peak areas of cy-
clohexane (84 amu), is much higher on Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) than on
Ni–Pt–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111), PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111), or NiACHTUNGTRENUNG(111).
The general trend of the DFT calculations (see Figure 1) also
shows
that
the
binding
energies
of
cyclohexene
on
Pt–Co–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) and Pt–Fe–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) are weaker than that on
Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111). Although the weaker binding energy of cyclo-
hexene might favor hydrogenation, the adsorption of cyclo-
hexene needs to be strong enough for this process to occur.
One would therefore expect to observe a volcano-type rela-
tionship for the hydrogenation activity as the d-band center
moves further away from the Fermi level, that is, when the ad-
sorption of cyclohexene is too weak for the hydrogenation to
occur. This is verified experimentally by comparing the top
four TPD spectra in Figure 2. The hydrogenation yield is the
highest on
Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111), but starts to decrease on the Pt–Co–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) and
Pt–Fe–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) surfaces. Another comparison is the absence of
hydrogenation activity on the monolayer Pt–WACHTUNGTRENUNG(110) surface,[11]
which has the d-band center even further away from the Fermi
level than Pt–Fe–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111). The volcano-type relationship is more
clearly illustrated in Figure 3, where the hydrogenation yield is
compared (as a function of the d-band center) for various Pt-
based bimetallic surfaces. The hydrogenation activity is maxi-
mized on the Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) subsurface structure, which indi-
cates that the value of the d-band center on this surface corre-
sponds to a cyclohexene binding energy that is optimal for hy-
drogenation.
A similar volcano-type relationship is also observed for the
hydrogenation of the C=O bond of acrolein (see Figure 4). Re-
cently, Murillo et al. performed DFT and experimental studies
of
the
hydrogenation
of
acrolein
on
the
subsurface
Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) and surface Ni–Pt–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) structures.[12] Selective
hydrogenation of the C=O bond to produce 2-propenol
(CH2=CHCH2OH) occurs on Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) as a result of the
comparable binding strengths of the di-s CC and di-s CO
bonding configurations, with the latter favoring the C=O hy-
drogenation pathway. In contrast, the di-s CC bonding is pre-
ferred over di-s CO on Ni–Pt–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) and PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111), which pre-
Figure 2. TPD results obtained for cyclohexane from the hydrogenation of
co-adsorbed cyclohexene and atomic hydrogen on different bimetallic surfa-
ces.
Figure 3. Hydrogenation activity of cyclohexene as a function of the d-band
center.
Figure 1. Correlation between cyclohexene binding energy and d-band
center for several bimetallic surfaces (as determined by DFT studies of hy-
drogen and cyclohexene co-adsorption). The inset shows the bonding con-
figuration of co-adsorbed cyclohexene and hydrogen on Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111).
ChemPhysChem 2008, 9, 1262 – 1264
B 2008 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
www.chemphyschem.org
1263
vents the hydrogenation of the C=O bond on the two surfaces.
As the
d-band center moves away from the Fermi level, one would
expect the di-s CC binding energy to decrease, thus leading
to the onset of a C=O hydrogenation pathway such as that ob-
served on Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111). On the other hand, the shift in the
d-band center would also reduce the di-s CO binding energy
and would likely make it too weak for hydrogenation to occur
when the d-band center is too far away from the Fermi level. A
balance between the strengths of these two bonding configu-
rations would lead to a volcano-type relationship for the pro-
duction of 2-propenol, as confirmed in Figure 4.
In conclusion, our results clearly indicate that the value of
the d-band center can be varied by means of the formation of
bimetallic surfaces, with the 3d–Pt–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) surface structures
resulting
in
a
shift
closer
to
the
Fermi
level
and
the
Pt–3d–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) subsurface structures shifting in the opposite di-
rection. The binding energies of unsaturated bonds, such as
C=C and C=O, are related to the d-band center, with the sub-
surface
Pt–3d–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) structures showing weaker binding energies that
favor hydrogenation. Because the hydrogenation activity re-
quires optimal binding energies between the unsaturated
bonds and the surfaces, volcano-type relationships are ob-
served for the hydrogenation of both the C=C bond in cyclo-
hexene and the C=O bond in acrolein. Most importantly, the
results demonstrate the possibility to predict bimetallic formu-
lations and structures with desirable hydrogenation activity
based on the value of the surface d-band center.
Experimental and Theoretical Methods
TPD studies were performed in a two-level stainless steel ultrahigh
vacuum (UHV) chamber with a base pressure of 1H1010 Torr. Bi-
metallic surfaces were prepared by depositing 3d metals on a
PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111) single-crystal substrate. Self-consistent periodic slab calcula-
tions were performed by means of periodic density functional
theory (DFT) using the code VASP (Vienna ab initio Simulation
Package). Co-adsorbed acrolein and atomic hydrogen were studied
using 3H3 super cells, with nine metal atoms in each layer and
two hydrogen atoms and one cyclohexene molecule adsorbed per
unit cell. The top two layers were allowed to relax.
Acknowledgements
We acknowledge financial support from the Department of
Energy Office of Basic Energy Sciences (Grant No.DE-FG02-
00ER15104).
Keywords: alloys · catalysts · hydrogenation · platinum ·
surface chemistry
[1] J. H. Sinfelt, Bimetallic Catalysts: Discoveries, Concepts, and Applications,
Wiley, New York, 1983.
[2] J. A. Rodriguez, Surf. Sci. Rep. 1996, 24, 225.
[3] J. A. Rodriguez, D. W. Goodman, Science 1992, 257, 897.
[4] A. Niquille-Rçthlisberger, R. Prins, J. Catal. 2006, 242, 207.
[5] J. G. Chen, C. A. Menning, M. B. Zellner, Surf. Sci. Rep. 2008, 63, 201.
[6] J. R. Kitchin, J. K. Norskov, M. A. Barteau, J. G. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett. 2004,
93, 156801.
[7] M. Mavrikakis, B. Hammer, J. K. Norskov, Phys. Rev. Lett. 1998, 81, 2819.
[8] J. R. Kitchin, N. A. Khan, M. A. Barteau, J. G. Chen, B. Yakshinksiy, T. E.
Madey, Surf. Sci. 2003, 544, 295.
[9] B. Hammer, J. K. Norskov, Adv. Catal. 2000, 45, 71.
[10] M. P. Humbert, L. E. Murillo, J. G. Chen, unpublished results.
[11] M. B. Zellner, J. G. Chen, J. Catal. 2005, 235, 393.
[12] L. E. Murillo, A. M. Goda, J. G. Chen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 7101.
Received: March 11, 2008
Published online on April 30, 2008
Figure 4. Production of 2-propenol from the selective hydrogenation of the
C=O bond of acrolein as a function of the d-band center. The inset shows
the di-s CO bonding configuration of acrolein on Pt–Ni–PtACHTUNGTRENUNG(111).
1264
www.chemphyschem.org
B 2008 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
ChemPhysChem 2008, 9, 1262 – 1264
