<quotes>

[1] "The lower surface free energy of Au compared to Pt (1.13 (44, 45) vs 2.48 (46) J/m2) makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain at the surface when Au is deposited on top of Pt. The fact that Au and Pt are immiscible at Au compositions greater than 17% (47) also suggests that Au should remain on top of the Pt clusters."
[2] "The adsorption of CO on the PtAu clusters at room temperature promotes the diffusion of Pt to the surface of the clusters, and this phenomena is most pronounced for the clusters that are initially pure Au at the surface."
[3] "Density functional theory calculations demonstrate that it is thermodynamically favorable for Pt to diffuse to the cluster surface in order to bind to CO."
[4] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites. Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys. The lower surface free energy of Au compared to Pt makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain at the surface when Au is deposited on top of Pt. The immiscibility of Au and Pt at Au compositions greater than 17% also suggests that Au should remain on top of the Pt clusters. The adsorption of CO on the PtAu clusters at room temperature promotes the diffusion of Pt to the surface of the clusters, and this phenomenon is most pronounced for the clusters that are initially pure Au at the surface. Density functional theory calculations demonstrate that it is thermodynamically favorable for Pt to diffuse to the cluster surface in order to bind to CO. For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites. Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface. These factors have consequent implications for the catalytic properties and performance of bimetallic catalysts in various applications.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.热力学偏好和反应条件对双金属催化剂的稳定性、表面分层和结构配置有重大影响，特别是在Pt基系统如Pt-3d合金中。Au的表面自由能比Pt低，这使得当Au沉积在Pt顶部时，Au留在表面在能量上是有利的。当Au组成大于17%时，Au和Pt的不互溶性也表明Au应该留在Pt簇的顶部。在室温下，CO在PtAu簇上的吸附促进了Pt向簇表面的扩散，这一现象在最初表面为纯Au的簇上最为明显。密度泛函理论计算表明，Pt向簇表面扩散以与CO结合在热力学上是有利的。对于CO氧化，反应的第一步是O2在Pt位点的解离。由于这一过程需要一个以上的连续Pt位点，因此在CO暴露前表面为100% Au的PtAu簇上，O2解离不能发生，考虑到在表面形成Pt位点集合的概率较低，这一点并不奇怪。这些因素对双金属催化剂在各种应用中的催化特性和性能有后续影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
