<quotes>
<p>The effect of pretreatment on the reactivity of Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts for N2O decomposition: Dehydroxylation vs. steaming Pijus K. Roy, Roel Prins, Gerhard D. Pirngruber * Institute of Chemical and Bioengineering, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland Received 4 August 2007; received in revised form 29 September 2007; accepted 4 October 2007 Available online 22 October 2007 Abstract The N2O decomposition activity of the Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, prepared by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) and aqueous ion exchange (IE), was studied after steaming and high temperature treatment at 1218 K (HT) and compared with the activity of the corresponding non-steamed catalysts after pretreatment at 873 K. FTIR spectra showed that dehydroxylation and/or dealumination took place during steaming and high temperature treatment of the catalysts, which leads to the formation of oxygen vacancies (i.e. lattice defect). These lattice defects leads to a change in electronic properties of the iron sites, which are associated with electron withdrawing Al Lewis centers. The iron sites in close proximity of defects are responsible for the initial higher N2O decomposition (transient activity) of the steamed and HT catalysts. The increase in steady-state activity over steamed and HT catalysts can be mainly attributed to an increase in the number of active sites created by autoreduction of the iron centers during steaming and high temperature treatment. The above-mentioned trends are valid for both CVD and IE samples.
</p>
<p>Dehydroxylation at high temperature leads to the formation of oxygen vacancies (lattice defects),which could play an important role for the catalytic activity.</p>
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Various synthesis methods including steam treatment, solid-state ion exchange, and liquid exchange of iron-containing ZSM-5 zeolites influence their catalytic performance in the N2O-assisted oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reaction. The key performance metrics such as C3H8 conversion, N2O conversion, C3H6 selectivity, and C3H6 yield demonstrate their effectiveness under different reaction conditions. The study indicates that dehydroxylation at high temperature leads to the formation of oxygen vacancies (lattice defects) which play an important role in enhancing the catalytic activity. The increase in steady-state activity can be attributed to an increase in the number of active sites created by autoreduction of the iron centers during steaming and high temperature treatment.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
各种合成方法，如蒸汽处理、固体态离子交换和液体交换，对铁含有的ZSM-5沸石在丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）反应中的催化性能产生影响。关键性能指标，如C3H8转化率、N2O转化率、C3H6选择性和C3H6产率，显示了它们在不同反应条件下的有效性。研究表明，高温去羟基化导致形成氧空位（晶格缺陷），这在提高催化活性方面起着重要作用。稳定状态活动的增加可归因于铁中心在蒸汽和高温处理期间还原产生的活性位点数量的增加。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
