I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Direct and oxidative dehydrogenation of propane: from catalyst design to industrial application The direct formation of propene from propane is a well-established commercial process, which on the basis of energy consumption, is environmentally preferred to the current large-scale sources of propene from steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Propene is a major platform chemical with applications in the polymer and chemical industry and its place in modern society is guaranteed over the coming decades. At present, sources of propane are mostly non-renewable, but the development of technologies to produce renewable green propane are gaining traction, which coupled with new catalytic processes will provide the platform to produce green propene. In this critical review, we examine the significant advances made in the development of dehydrogenation catalysts, evaluating the technological and environmental merits. Currently, non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation (DDH) is the only commercialised process, and this is reflected in the high spacetime yield commonly reported over the most active catalysts which are typically Pt or Cr based. However, the formation of coke over even the most selective catalysts necessitates multi-reactor cycling to facilitate regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) does not suffer from coke formation, but can lead to overoxidation, limiting the yield of propene. While no commercial processes have yet been developed, a promising new class of ODH-O2 catalysts has emerged in recent years which use boron as the active component. These catalysts are amongst the most active and selective reported to date for this reaction. The use of CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) has also gained interest due to the environmental advantages of utilising CO2. Although this is an attractive prospect with considerable potential, the propene yields reported over these catalysts are an order of magnitude lower than the most active DDH and ODH-O2 catalysts. Despite significant advances in the past decade, current ODH-CO2 catalysts remain far from displaying the activity levels necessary to be considered for commercial application. The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance. Future catalyst design in DDH and ODH-O2 should focus on improving selectivity to propene, while ODH-CO2 catalysts are limited by their low intrinsic activity with respect to CO2. The scarcity of some common catalytic elements is also discussed, with recommendations focusing on more abundant chemical elements. Future research should focus on the low temperature activation of CO2 as a priority. With further research and development of lower energy routes to propene based on the dehydrogenation of green propane, it should be possible to transform the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical intermediate.
James H. Carter James H. Carter obtained his PhD under the supervision of Professors Graham Hutchings and Stan Golunski, and currently works as a Post-Doctoral Research Associate at Cardiff Catalysis Institute in the Hutchings group. His research focuses on the synthesis, characterisation and evaluation of novel heterogenous catalysts for wide-ranging applications, including carbon-free energy, environmental catalysis, sustainable manufacturing and selective oxidation. His research is centred on advancing the fundamental understanding of the chemistry and materials, and involves collaboration with universities and industry nationally and internationally.
Takudzwa Bere Takudzwa Bere is a PhD candidate at Cardiff Catalysis Institute under the supervision of Professor Graham Hutchins and Professor Stuart Taylor. His primary research encompasses building fundamental structureactivity relationships through catalyst design and advanced characterisation with a focus on the design, synthesis and functionalization of novel amorphous catalytic materials, synthesised using the supercritical antisolvent (SAS) precipitation method. Target reactions include non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation reaction and alcohol dehydration for alternative fuels.
Jack R. Pitchers Jack Pitchers is a PhD candidate at the Cardiff Catalysis institute, based at Cardiff university, under the supervision of Dr Graham Hutchings and Dr Stuart Taylor. Jack acquired a MSci in natural sciences at Lancaster university in 2018 and subsequently acquired a MRes as part of the catalysis CDT programme at Cardiff University. His primary interests are focused on the design, synthesis, and characterisation of novel metal oxide catalysts for selective oxidation.
Daniel G. Hewes Daniel Hewes is a postgraduate PhD student at Cardiff Catalysis institute under the supervision of Professor Graham Hutchings and Professor Chris Kiely. His primary research focuses on the advanced characterisation techniques relating to Electron Microscopy and X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy, and how these techniques apply to the structureactivity relationships of novel catalytic materials.
Bart D. Vandegehuchte Bart Vandegehuchte (Ghent, Belgium, 1985) obtained his Master degree in Chemical Engineering at Ghent University in 2008. In 2014 at the same university, he obtained his PhD at the Laboratory of Chemical Technology with Prof. Joris W. Thybaut in microkinetic modeling and hydrocracking. In 2015, he joined Total Refining & Chemicals as a research engineer in the Catalysis Refining & Base Chemicals department. His initial focus was on bottom-of-the-barrel conversion and selective hydrogenation of acetylenics. Nowadays, his main research has shifted to oxidative coupling of methane, life cycle analysis, and metal-based nanocatalysis for conventional and emerging technologies.
Christopher J. Kiely Christopher Kiely is the Harold B. Chambers Senior Professor of Materials Science and Engineering at Lehigh University, USA. He received his B.Sc and Ph.D degrees from Bristol University, UK. His research involves the development and application of analytical electron microscopy techniques for the study of nanoscale features in catalyst and other particulate materials.
Stuart H. Taylor Stuart Taylor completed his PhD at the University of Liverpool in 1994, and then took up an academic position at Cardiff University School of Chemistry in 1997. Promoted to Professor in 2013, currently he is the Director of Research for the School and has more than 29 years of experience in heterogeneous catalysis research, publishing over 320 papers and patents. He has wide-ranging expertise in experimental studies of fundamental catalysis, which impacts fuels, sustainability, energy and the environment. His research receives support from a wide range of funding bodies and industry and collaborates extensively with universities and industry alike.
Graham J. Hutchings Graham Hutchings is Regius Professor of Chemistry at Cardiff University. His early career was in industry with ICI and AECI Ltd where he became interested in gold catalysis. In 1984 he moved to academia and has held chairs at the Universities of Witwatersrand, Liverpool and Cardiff. He has published over 900 papers and patents. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 2009 and was awarded the Davy Medal in 2013, the ENI Award for Advanced Environmental Solutions in 2017, the RSC Faraday Lectureship and Prize in 2018, a CBE in the Queen's Birthday Honours List in 2018 and the Michel Boudart Award in 2021.
1. Introduction
1.1. The importance of propene in modern society
Propene is a major platform chemical with a myriad of uses in the manufacturing and chemical industry. The majority of propene is used to manufacture polypropene, a recyclable thermoplastic polymer which is second only to polyethene in the scale of production. Polypropene has favourable physical properties such as high chemical resistance and good elasticity, which makes it useful in a broad range of applications, including packaging, manufacturing and in construction materials. Propene is also the precursor to many other polymer-related chemicals, including propene oxide (used to make polyurethane), acrylic acid (used to make acrylic polymers) and acrylonitrile (used to make polypropenonitrile). Additionally, large scale chemicals such as isopropanol and cumene (used to manufacture phenol and acetone) are made from propene. Annual propene production was around 130 megatonnes in 20191 and is predicted to increase to 191 megatonnes by 2030. Significantly, the expected growth in propane demand cannot be met by existing processes, which are based on steam-cracking (SC) and fluid catalytic cracking (FCC). Instead, direct or on-purpose processes are being developed to fill the so-called propene gap. The focus of this critical review is on the dehydrogenation of propane.
Direct dehydrogenation can be performed either with or without an oxidant present, and O2, CO2 and N2O can all participate as oxidants to form propene from propane. The discovery of active and selective catalysts is central to the development of these on-purpose technologies and is the focus of the current review. Research into propane dehydrogenation is an ever-growing field and to date there are several review articles available on direct dehydrogenation (DDH) (Sattler,2 2013), soft oxidation with CO2 (ODH-CO2) (Atanga,3 2018) and oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH-O2) (Carrero,4 2014 and Shi,5 2018). Otroshchenko et al. recently reviewed the literature on metal oxide catalysts for each dehydrogenation reaction, including reaction-engineering and catalyst design, but omitted supported nanoparticle catalysts. To our knowledge there are no comprehensive literature reviews that compare and contrast non-oxidative and oxidative dehydrogenation reactions.
The scope of this article is to critically review the literature on DDH, ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 to identify over-arching themes and common rules for catalyst design. We do not try to capture aspects of reaction design and engineering, which itself is a vibrant field of research. We attempt to compare the performance of catalysts in the different sub-reactions by calculating a space time yield (STY), (measured in molC3H6 kgcat1 h1), which is based on the initial activity of the catalysts. This enables a meaningful comparison between different research groups and reaction conditions. Additionally, we emphasise the environmental and industrial perspectives of each reaction and the prospects for industrial application.
1.2. Propene production processes  an environmental perspective
Traditionally, the industrial production of light alkenes, such as propene, has been carried out via either SC, or FCC of naphtha and diesel feedstocks. These methods typically provide a range of products including ethene, propene and gasoline, amongst others.6 As of 2016, these routes accounted for 81% of propene production in industry, with 50% coming from SC and 31% from FCC. The remaining 19% was from newer technologies, such as direct dehydrogenation.6 SC, which involves the heating of fossil-fuels in the absence of oxygen to produce alkenes, requires temperatures up to 750875 C.7 As an established process, naphtha SC has a high carbon efficiency, producing almost no CO2 from the cracking process itself.7 Although naphtha SC has an effective carbon efficiency, the process still relies on high temperatures for alkene production, which itself produces a significant amount of CO2 from energy consumption.7,8 These factors taken together result in steam cracking being responsible for the global emission of more than 300 million tonnes of CO2 per year, as well as naphtha SC producing ozone-depleting CFCs.7 FCC provides a way of producing light alkenes at lower temperatures compared to SC, by employing a catalyst into the process. However, despite its modestly lower operating temperatures, the FCC process produces many by-products. Many reduced S and N species are formed, as well as significant CO and HCN, which start forming at as low as 450 C. Partial burn FCC reactors, (i.e., reactors which form CO, rather than CO2) will incorporate a CO burner downstream.9 Feedstocks involved in FCC processes typically include high molecular weight hydrocarbons, breaking them down into more valuable light alkenes; however, it often struggles to process lighter feedstocks such as naphtha.9 Both processes are designed to produce a wide array of products, as well as often generating by-products that require additional energy to process. In addition, while propene demand is increasing, processing plants are tending towards higher ethene production due to shale gas production, leading towards a global shortage of propene.6,10 Overall, cracking of naptha and other petrochemical feedstocks to produce propene is unsustainable and leads to significant CO2 emissions. Alternative indirect routes to propene, from syn gas and via methanol, has also gained interest in recent years.7 The feedstock for this process can be biomass, shale gas or coal. Using coal as a feedstock has gained widespread use in China but poses a huge environmental burden.
The environmental and economic aspects of different existing propene production technologies are important considerations when reviewing the feasibility of newer technologies based on dehydrogenation. Green chemistry principles, such as atom economy, the use of toxic chemicals and the renewability of the feedstock, are especially relevant. This is summarised in Table 1, which compares steam cracking, MTO (from coal and natural gas) and dehydrogenation. Atom economy is a measurement of the percentage of atomic mass in the starting reagents that ends up in the final product. It serves as a useful indicator of how chemically efficient a process could be. It is important to remember that in practice, the real atom economy is determined by the selectivity of the catalyst, and the prevalence of side-reactions. Although it is not possible to precisely calculate the atom economy of SC or MTO due to the complexity of the process and uncertainty in the composition of the feedstock, it is apparent that both of these technologies are inferior to dehydrogenation. In the case of SC a wide range of chemicals are made, and while these are ultimately utilised in the production of other chemicals, the % of propene formed from such a process is low. Equally, in the MTO process from coal or natural gas, the atom economy is limited by the generation of H2O as a by-product. In contrast, in the case of dehydrogenation only H2 is generated as a by-product, meaning an atom economy of 95% is possible. With respect to the toxicity of the chemicals, SC forms various carcinogenic compounds, and the toxicity of methanol is well-established. In contrast, propane is non-hazardous. At present each of the feedstocks used in the main methods of propene production tend to be non-renewable. In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass. In these cases, the feedstock is renewable and so these processes are potentially much more sustainable than when using fossil fuels. Rodrguez-Vallejo et al. carried out life cycle analyses of naphtha cracking, propane dehydrogenation and MTO (using coal or natural gas as feedstocks).11 In this analysis, the global warming potential (GWP), resource scarcity, impact on human health and the impact on the ecosystem was considered and quantified as a cost per kg of C3H6 produced. These data are shown in Table 1. In terms of the global warming potential of each process, the MTO based reactions are clearly worse than the naphtha cracking or direct dehydrogenation reactions, but the CO2 emissions of the coal-based feedstock is almost an order of magnitude higher than naphtha cracking. A similar trend was observed in the ecosystem category. This was measured in terms of local species lost integrated over time and underlines the gross negative impact of utilising coal as a feedstock in this chemistry. Resource scarcity was calculated based on the monetary burden of future mineral and fossil fuel extraction and shows that natural gas has around double the cost of that associated with propane, coal and naphtha. Finally, the cost to human health was estimated in terms of disability-adjusted life years, and naphtha cracking and propane dehydrogenation came out favourably compared to the MTO processes. Based on these metrics, it is clear that MTO from coal or natural gas has a larger environmental burden than SC or dehydrogenation. Opportunities for improving the sustainability of the dehydrogenation process were recently highlighted by Agarwal et al. who investigated various intensification and integration strategies. It was shown that such strategies, which involved additional waste heat recovery and off-gas recycling, up to 70% reductions in CO2 emissions were possible.12 Table 1 Summary of various propene production processes from a green chemistry perspective Feedstock Processes Atom economy Toxic reactants Renewability of feedstock GWP (kg CO2 per kg C3H6)a Resource scarcity (USD per kg C3H6)a Human health (DALY per kg C3H6)a Ecosystem (species year per kg C3H6)a Naphtha SC Low Crude oil/naptha streams Non-renewable 1.8 0.61 0.25 0.05 Coal Syn gas, methanol synthesis, MTO Low Methanol Non-renewable 16.5 0.60 4.0 1.1 Natural gas Syn gas, methanol synthesis, MTO Low Methanol Mostly non-renewable 4.5 1.10 0.8 0.2 Propane DH High None Mostly non-renewable 2.5 0.55 0.4 0.1 SC = steam cracking, GWP = global warming potential, DALY = disability-adjusted life years, MTO = methanol to olefins. a Values from ref. 11.
The increased interest in direct propane dehydrogenation has been enhanced by the fall in propane price, which is the direct result of the discovery of vast shale gas reserves in North America. Although propane is a minor component in shale gas, it is facile to separate and therefore represents a valuable, but non-renewable source of propane. Increasing public pressure to move away from such non-renewable feedstocks continues to gain momentum and the propane production industry has responded accordingly. The production of renewable green propane (also called bio-propane and bioLPG) is an emerging sector which is already being operated on a large scale. TotalEnergies operates a bio-refinery in La Mede, which has a design capacity for bio-propane of 25000 tonnes per year.13 Additionally, Neste recently opened a renewable propane production plant, which will produce 40000 tonnes per year.14 The propane generated is then sold on to be used in direct propane dehydrogenation.15 While this is an important start, it represents less than 1% of annual propane capacity. Bio-propane can be produced from the processing of biomass, notably as a side-product in the production of bio-diesel16 as well as glycerol17 and other substrates.18 With increasing pressure to source chemical feedstocks sustainably, we can expect that new interest will focus on renewable and green routes to the key platform chemicals currently required by modern society, and that green propane will play an important role in this.
Overall, direct propane dehydrogenation satisfies many principles of green chemistry in comparison to SC and MTO benchmarks: it is highly atom-economic, does not use toxic reactants (or generate toxic by-products) and can in principle, utilise renewable feedstocks. However, in practice dehydrogenation will only be desirable as a means of producing propene if the reaction can operate efficiently, with minimal side-products and maximum yield. These factors are governed by the choice of catalyst, the main focus of the current review. The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
2. Thermodynamics and environmental aspects of different dehydrogenation processes
Each dehydrogenation reaction has different thermodynamic, environmental and economic aspects, which are important to recognise when designing catalysts and sustainable processes. In section 1.2, the environmental implications of cracking and MTO were discussed and compared with DDH. The majority of analyses focus on well-established processes, where more information and data are available, but no such analyses were found for oxidative dehydrogenation. As a result, the environmental impact of these novel reactions can only be speculated upon. The following section focuses on the thermodynamic and environmental aspects of each sub-reaction, drawing on available literature whenever possible, and when not possible suggesting the most important aspects that could affect the sustainability of each process.
2.1 DDH
DDH is an endothermic reaction , which is equilibrium-limited at higher partial pressures of propane and lower reaction temperatures. As a result, typical reaction temperatures for industrial DDH processes are 550750 C. Another key challenge in catalyst design for DDH is the fact that coke is also a favoured product under the conditions required for high propene yield and its formation is assumed to be initiated by deep dehydrogenation. Fig. 1 illustrates the typical reaction pathways observed in DDH. Catalytic and thermal (gas-phase radical) cracking reactions lead to the formation of methane and ethene. Ethene can then hydrogenate to ethane. The hydrogenolysis of propane is also possible, which forms methane and ethane.
Fig. 1 Reaction pathways commonly observed during the DDH of propane. In addition to DDH, unfavourable deep dehydrogenation to coke, hydrogenolysis and cracking are also observed.
As described above, the atom economy for DDH is high (95%) and the only by-product (in theory) is molecular hydrogen, which is a valuable resource with many uses and applications, not least as a carbon-free fuel. In practice however, frequent regeneration steps are required to remove coke, which involves combustion to form carbon dioxide. This means that the environmental impact of this process will depend to some extent on the prevalence of coke formation on the catalyst surface. As a feedstock, C3H8 is non-toxic, unlike methanol in the MTO process. The high flammability of C3H8 may present a safety risk in a chemical plant, but such a risk is present in all forms of C3H6 production.
2.2 ODH-O2
ODH-O2 is exothermic and conversion is not limited by thermodynamic equilibrium. Additionally, the formation of coke is suppressed substantially, with overoxidation constituting the main competing pathway. Fig. 2 shows the typical reaction pathways that occur over ODH-O2 catalysts. Overoxidation is the main drawback, with CO and particularly CO2 reported as by-products. Cracking products are also reported, but generally as minor products. In common with ODH-CO2, water is formed via oxidative dehydrogenation. CO2 can also be formed via direct combustion of C3H8.19 Fig. 2 Reaction pathways commonly observed in ODH-O2 reactions. In addition to ODH-O2, overoxidation, combustion and cracking are often observed.
The addition of O2 enables lower operating temperatures to be utilised (typically 450550 C) and is exothermic, meaning the energy costs of sustaining the reaction temperature are less than those in DDH and ODH-CO2. However, the atom economy of ODH-O2 is 70% and H2O is generated as a by-product rather than H2. While CO2 may be generated as a by-product, this depends on the catalyst, and the overall CO2 generated may be comparable to a DDH process. There will be increased energy consumption associated with supplying the oxidant in sufficient purity and volume. If air is used, downstream separation of N2 will be necessary, which would increase process energy consumption. The reactants and products are non-toxic, but the use of O2 and C3H8 introduce an elevated safety risk. Although an in-depth environmental analysis of an ODH-O2 process for C3H8 has not yet been carried out, it may be concluded that ODH-O2 is comparable, if not more environmentally-friendly than DDH due to the lower expected costs associated with maintaining the reaction temperature. However, the performance and composition of the catalyst will be a crucial factor in this comparison. The economic aspects of ODH-O2 have not been analysed for C3H6 production. However, the oxidative dehydrogenation of C2H6 has been investigated extensively, and such an analysis is available. Gaffney and Mason compared ODH-O2 of C2H6 with thermal cracking and showed that ODH-O2 has the potential to significantly reduce the plant capital costs and the overall cost of production.20 Given the similarities in the cracking and dehydrogenation of ethane and propane, it is reasonable to conclude that the economic factors associated with the ODH-O2 of C3H8 are also favourable compared with steam cracking.
2.3 ODH-CO2
ODH-CO2 is even more endothermic than DDH , due to the contribution of the mildly endothermic reverse watergas shift (RWGS) reaction (Fig. 3). While it seems as though the addition of CO2 would be detrimental on this basis, the removal of hydrogen via the RWGS reaction favourably shifts the thermodynamic equilibrium to enable higher propene yields. Hence, ODH-CO2 can be carried out at lower reaction temperatures than DDH (450600 C). Although the reaction can proceed via a one-step oxidative dehydrogenation pathway or a two-step DDH + RWGS reaction, the net reaction is the same. A key competing reaction pathway in ODH-CO2 is dry reforming of propane (DRP) (Fig. 3), which can occur under the same conditions as ODH-CO2.21 In addition to DRP, CO2 can react with coke to generate CO via the reverse Boudouard reaction, which is reported to proceed under typical reaction conditions for ODH-CO2 (500600 C). Zangeneh et al.22 carried out a full thermodynamic analysis of the ODH-CO2 reaction, considering coke-forming and dry reforming side-reactions. The inclusion of these reactions in the thermodynamic model strongly impacted the equilibrium product of propene, increasing the equilibrium conversion of propane at the expense of propene selectivity. Dry reforming of propane was favoured at higher temperatures, while coke-formation was favoured at lower temperatures and at lower CO2:C3H8 ratios. It was also pointed out that the reported experimental data showed conversions well below equilibrium values, suggesting rapid catalyst deactivation. This analysis highlighted the need for kinetic control of dry reforming and coke forming reactions in order to maximise propene yield. Instead of hydrogen, water is formed either as the primary oxidative dehydrogenation product or as a result of DDH followed by the RWGS reaction.
Fig. 3 Reaction pathways commonly observed in ODH-CO2 reaction. In addition to ODH-CO2, deep dehydrogenation, cracking and in some catalysts dry reforming are observed. The reverse Boudouard reaction is also frequently reported to occur under typical reaction conditions.
From an environmental perspective, ODH-CO2 has the greatest potential in the context of a circular economy. Although the formation of water is less desirable than hydrogen, ODH-CO2 has the benefit of consuming CO2 in the process, and this is often cited as the motivation for investigating this route. Chemical CO2 utilisation is an attractive prospect in the context of combatting climate change: if CO2 can be consumed in large scale processes, the overall carbon footprint of certain products/technologies could be significantly reduced. However, it is important to consider how CO, which is formed from ODH-CO2, could be used in a sustainable way to justify the apparent greenness of ODH-CO2. If the CO is used in the watergas shift (WGS) reaction for hydrogen production, then CO2 is immediately formed as a result, and the process becomes carbon neutral. Equally, if CO is combined with H2 to be used in various syn-gas processes, e.g. methanol or FischerTropsch synthesis, then it is likely that the carbon will be burned as a fuel and ultimately returned to CO2. While this may not be considered to be as desirable as sequestering CO2 from the atmosphere, the utilisation of CO2 in this technology would form part of a renewable carbon cycle, and avoids additional CO2 emissions. This concept of carbon avoidance forms an important part of the short and medium term strategies to curb CO2 emissions, and carbon capture and storage technologies are a fundamental aspect of this.23 The source of CO2 is also an important consideration. CO2 may be sequestered from the environment at additional process costs, or may be recovered from other CO2 forming processes. In comparison to other dehydrogenation reactions, ODH-CO2 has the lowest atom economy (48%), but compared to cracking processes, where C3H6 is a minor product, this is respectable. The overall efficiency of the reaction will also depend on the catalyst, and if the above undesirable pathways can be sufficiently minimised.
Overall, each dehydrogenation reaction has unique operating conditions and challenges, which are dictated by their thermodynamics. In the case of DDH, the formation of coke remains the biggest challenge, as it is thermodynamically favoured under conditions that enable high propane conversion. In ODH-CO2, dry reforming is also a competing pathway under typical reaction conditions and in the case of ODH-O2, overoxidation is prevalent due to CO2 being the thermodynamically favoured product. The thermodynamic tendency to form undesirable by-products means that such reactions must be carefully kinetically controlled. Careful catalyst design can inhibit and even switch-off some of these side-reactions, as will be discussed in the subsequent sections.
3. Commercial processes
The commercial dehydrogenation of propane is exclusively carried out in the absence of an oxidant. There are several technologies that currently operate, using various catalysts based on Pt or Cr, as shown in Table 2.
Table 2 Commercial propane dehydrogenation technologies for a selection of catalysts.24,25 Technology Name Oleflex Dow FCdh Uhde STAR Process CATOFIN K-PRO Licensor/developer UOP LLC Honeywell Dow Krupp-Uhde ABB Lummus KBR, inc.
Reactor type 4 moving-bed reactors + 1 regeneration unit Fluidised circulating reactor and regenerator Adiabatic Fixed bed parallel reactors Orthoflow FCC continuous + continuous catalyst regeneration Catalyst Alkaline promoted PtSn/Al2O3 PtGa/Al2O3 PtSn/ZnAl2O3/CaAl2O3 (Na/K) promoted CrOx/Al2O3 Proprietary  precious metal and Cr free Catalyst Life 13 years Unknown Unknown 23 years Unknown Temperature/C 650 Unknown 550590 560650 Unknown Pressure/bar 23 1.31.7 56 0.5 1.5 Cycle Time 510 days <2 min 7 h (+1 h) regeneration 15 min <1 min Conversion/% 3040 4353 40 4853 45 Selectivity/% 84 (at 40% conversion) 9296 89 88 8790 The Oleflex process from UOP employs alkali metal-promoted PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts in a reaction system composed of four moving bed reactors. In this process, the catalyst is continuously regenerated in a separate regeneration circuit. The reactors are connected in series with gas flow pre-heaters operating at pressures between 1 and 3 bar in the region of 650 C. The typical catalyst in the Oleflex process consists of spherical pellets of γ-Al2O3 (surface area ca. 100 m2 g1) containing Pt (<1 wt%) promoted with Sn and alkali metals.The Dow FCDh technology utilises a fluidised reactor system coupled with a fluidised regeneration reactor, which enables continuous operation/regeneration.24 The catalyst is comprised of a commercially available Al2O3 support that is impregnated with Ga and Pt. The catalyst can be fully recoverable after the regeneration step, which involves high temperature oxidative treatment to remove retained carbon species i.e. coke. Compared with the Oleflex process, which requires a complicated regeneration protocol involving Cl2, O2 and then H2, the Dow FCDh technology enables a much simpler regeneration cycle.The Steam Active Reforming (STAR) process from Phillips Petroleum, developed by Uhde employs a Sn promoted Pt catalyst, (0.2 to 0.6 wt%), dispersed on a zincaluminate support, with a calcium/magnesium aluminate binder. The operating pressures and temperatures are between 6 and 9 bar and 550 to 590 C, respectively.2 Also, due to its non-acidic nature, the support does not promote undesired side reactions, such as cracking, isomerization or coke formation and contains Sn as a promoter to reduce coke formation and increase selectivity. Catalyst development for the STAR process continues: BASF and Thyssenkrupp announced a joint development agreement in 2020, which aims to reduce CO2 emissions, reduce feedstock consumption and the operating costs of the process. This underlines the opportunities in catalyst design in improving even already-commercialised processes.Chromium oxide supported on aluminium oxide (CrOx/Al2O3) is commonly employed industrially in the CATOFIN process and is composed of 1820 wt% chromium oxide supported on 12 wt% alkaline metal (Na or K) promoted aluminium oxide.2,26 The alkali promoter influences both the activity and selectivity of the catalyst by reducing the surface acidity of alumina, thus suppressing undesired side reactions. In the context of the commercialised CATOFIN process, improvements in the catalyst design and process conditions have been made, however challenges still exist relating to their activity, selectivity and stability. To boost the yield of propene and reduce emissions, the addition of a heat-generating material (HGM) has been employed, a notable example of which was developed by Clariant.27 The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.28 This is loaded with the catalyst in the reactor, and is reduced during the reaction, which generates heat and therefore offsets the heat consumption that occurs during the DDH reaction. Since its rollout in 2015 in Ningbo Haiyue New Material Co., who are based in Ningbo City, China, the same HGM technology has been implemented in additional CATOFIN processes and Ineos recently awarded Clariant a long-term contract to supply the HGM.29 K-PRO was developed by KBR and is the latest process to be commercialised; the first contract was awarded in January 2020, around 1 year after the company introduced the technology and since then a licence has been agreed with JS Energy Ltd.30 The significance of this process is that the catalyst does not contain precious metals or chromium, although the active component(s) remain proprietary information. The reactor is based on KBR's FCC orthoflow reactor, which is an up-flowing vertical reactor riser, conceptually similar to the Dow FCDh process in that the reactor is a fluidised bed, but the regeneration section is different.25 The commercial interest in further developing dehydrogenation technologies is evident from a simple examination of the patent literature. Fig. 4a shows the number of patents filed annually since 1980 that disclose inventions of novel catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. There is a marked increase over time, which has accelerated in the last decade. This growing interest and development are driven by the demand for propene itself, but also by the opportunity to further improve dehydrogenation catalysts. It is also evident from the sub-reaction breakdown that the majority (86%) of filed patents are for DDH catalysts, followed by ODH-O2 (12%) and finally ODH-CO2 (2.4%). Fig. 4b shows the breakdown of these patents by the 14 most prolific companies. China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (SINOPEC) have published more patents than the next 13 companies combined, underlining the interest in direct propane dehydrogenation in the East Asia. It is also clear from this data that the interest in propane dehydrogenation is global, with companies from the USA, Europe and Asia all filing multiple patents.Fig. 4 (a) The number of patents published per year from 19802020 including the breakdown based on sub-reaction (DDH, dark red; ODH-O2, medium red and ODH-CO2, light red) and (b) the breakdown of patents filed per company for the top 14 companies active in this area.
4. Direct dehydrogenation
4.1. Pt-Based DDH catalysts
Platinum is the primary component in many dehydrogenation catalysts due to its ability to activate CH bonds, coupled with its low activity for the breaking of CC bonds. As shown above in Table 1, Pt is present in three commercial processes. In this section, the most significant publications in the field of Pt-catalysed DDH are discussed.
The superiority of Pt as a DDH catalyst over other transition metals was recently illustrated by Araujo-Lopez et al. who used DFT calculations to measure the transition state energy for non-oxidative (and oxidative) CH bond activation.31 It was shown that Pt has the lowest value out of a range of transition metals, consistent with Pt typically outperforming other such metals experimentally. Interestingly, while Ag and Au did not facilitate non-oxidative CH bond activation, in the presence of hydroxyl groups the energy barrier was much lower. These calculations help to explain the success of Pt catalysts for DDH and also highlight that other elements should be considered in ODH reactions.
The reaction mechanism for DDH has been the subject of much research. In describing catalytic dehydrogenation reactions, the most commonly quoted mechanism is the HoriutiPolanyi mechanism, proposed in 1934.32 The mechanism proceeds as follows:i. Dissociative adsorption of the alkane (cleaving the first CH bond). ii. CH cleavage of a second hydrogen from C3H7. iii. Formation of a hydrogen molecule. iv. Desorption of both hydrogen and the corresponding alkene.
The dissociative adsorption of propane and the CH cleavage steps have been suggested as being rate-limiting,33 although this depends on the catalyst. Due to the reaction conditions, side reactions frequently compete with the dehydrogenation reaction, reducing catalyst activity and selectivity. At high reaction temperatures, side reactions such as hydrogenolysis, cracking, aromatization and isomerization are thermodynamically and kinetically favoured.3436 DDH is possible over almost all Pt sites, but the intrinsic selectivity and activity depends on Pt particle size: atomic steps and kink sites i.e. coordinatively-unsaturated species are responsible for CH and CC bond cleavage, which can take place here with near zero activation energy, leading to coke formation and thus catalyst deactivation.3739 While turnover frequency (TOF) increases as the Pt particle size decreases, selectivity is high in very small Pt species (<1 nm) and larger Pt nanoparticles (>3 nm).40 A similar trend was also observed for stability, which is likely related to less selective Pt NPs forming coke more readily and blocking active sites.One of the most fruitful areas of development in Pt-catalysed DDH is in the use of promotors. Specifically, Sn and Ga have been very successful, and this is reflected in their application in commercial processes, as discussed in section 3. The origin of the promotional effect of Sn has been discussed in detail in previous review articles.2,41 Practically, the addition of Sn results in higher propene selectivity, lower support acidity, and increased diffusion of coke away from the active Pt site. Both geometric and electronic effects have been cited to explain these observations. Regarding geometric effects, Sn can modify the Pt particle size, which as previously discussed, strongly influences the reactivity of propane.42 Specifically, Sn (oxide) can partially obscure the surface Pt species, which in turns creates smaller Pt ensembles. Regarding electronic effects, evidence for electron transfer from Sn to Pt has also been reported by DFT43 and XPS analyses.44 In an early report of Sn promoting Pt catalysts, Baris et al. demonstrated that the effect is support sensitive, in comparing Pt/Al2O3 and Pt/SiO2.45 The addition of Sn to Pt/Al2O3 was wholly beneficial, improving Pt dispersion and selectivity, while maintaining specific activity. Over Pt/SiO2, however, the Sn was more readily reduced and although an improvement in Pt dispersion and stability was noted, it came at the expense of specific activity. In fact, the oxidation state of Sn in the active catalyst is still debated and a range of different species may co-exist from Sn4+ through to Sn0 before and during the DDH reaction.41 Pt promotion using Ga has also yielded highly active catalysts, and the role of Ga has been compared to that of Sn, i.e. due to both geometric and electronic effects. Wang et al. prepared a highly active Pt3Ga/Al2O3 catalyst and showed it could be improved by the addition of CeO2: Pt3Ga/CeO2Al2O3 yielded an initial STY of 87 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (compared to 83 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 without CeO2) (Table 3, entries 12 and 15).Table 3 Comparison of the catalytic performance of selected Pt-based catalysts for DDH Entry Catalyst T/C Feed composition WHSV /h1 XC3H8/% SC3H6/% STY /molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 Ref. 1 Pt/Mg(ln)(Al)Ox 550 C3H8 = 100 1.6 24.2 98.2 7.8 54 2 PtSn/BZrO2 550 C3H8/H2/N2 = 1:1:8 1.8 36 97 13 69 3 Pt/Silicalite-1 550 C3H8/N2 = 1:1 2.8 35 95 20 59 4 Pt3Mn/SiO2 550 C3H8/N2 = 1.25:98.75 29.5 6.8 95 41 65 5 PtSn/Mg(3Zn)AlO 550 C3H8/N2 = 1:4 3.8 55.2 99.4 47 56 6 PtGa/Hd-Al2O3 580 C3H8/N2 = 1:9 2.4 65.5 97 32 51 7 Pt/Al2O3600 590 C3H8/H2/He = 1:1.25:4 5.2 48.5 96.9 51 50 8 PtSn/Al2O3sheet 590 C3H8/H2/N2 = 1:1.25:4 9.5 48.7 99.1 95 49 9 PtCu/h-BN 600 C3H8/H2/N2 = 1:1:3.9 4.0 24 97.3 20 70 10 Ptln/LaAlO3/γ-Al2O3 600 C3H8/H2/N2 = 8:7:35 2.6 47 96 26 53 11 Pt/TiO2Al2O3-10 600 C3H8/H2/N2 = 1:1:1.85 10.2 47.3 78 80 52 12 Pt3Ga/Al2O3 600 C3H8/H2/N2 = 1:1:1.85 10.2 39.4 98 83 79 13 PtZn@Silicalite-1 600 C3H8/N2 = 1:1.73 6.5 45 99.8 66 63 14 Pt/TiO2Al2O3-20 600 C3H8/H2/N2 = 1:1:1.85 10.2 45.5 88 86 52 15 Pt3Ga/CeO2Al2O3 600 C3H8/H2/N2 = 1:1:1.85 10 41.1 98.5 87 79 16 Pt/ln/Mg(Al)Ox 620 C3H8/H2/Ar = 8:7:35 3.3 69 98 45 55 T = reaction temperature; feed composition = molar ratio of C3H8/H2/carrier in the reaction, XC3H8 = initial propane conversion, SC3H6 = initial propene selectivity, STY = space time yield. Hd = Hydrothermally synthesized.Ge was recently shown to also boost the performance of Pt catalysts: Rimaz et al. prepared various Ge loadings, followed by reduction at different temperatures.46 An initial propene yield of 53.8% was achieved on a PtGe/Al2O3 catalyst, comprising 0.5 wt% Pt and 1.5 wt% Ge reduced at 600 C. The improvement of the bimetallic catalyst was ascribed to the electron withdrawing Ge promotor, which aided CH activation. Isolated single Pt atoms in a Cu matrix (10 wt% Cu and 0.1 wt% Pt) supported on Al2O3 simultaneously displayed enhanced catalyst activity, selectivity and stability over a 120 h period.47 In producing supported single atom materials, undesired side-reactions were suppressed. Thus, isolated Pt atoms dispersed on Cu nanoparticles were identified as active centres with high propene selectivity; dramatically enhancing the desorption of surface bound propene, prohibiting its further dehydrogenation.Numerous Pt-based catalysts supported on alumina (Al2O3) have been reported. The development of new catalysts with simultaneously enhanced activity, selectivity and stability is the ultimate goal. Gamma-alumina (γ-Al2O3) is characterized by a high number and density of medium-strong acid sites, which can lead to undesired side reactions. Brnsted and Lewis acid sites on the support surface promote cracking and surface acid sites result in faster dehydrogenation for propene than propane, leading to deep dehydrogenation. Limited support acidity is needed to avoid undesirable side reactions, such as catalytic cracking and coke formation. However, Lewis acid sites and amphoteric OH groups can function as nucleation sites for Pt, enhancing dispersion. This, coupled with the high specific surface areas frequently reported for γ-Al2O3 explain its popularity as a catalyst support.48 Recent advances in the use of numerous supports and catalysis synthesis methods for Pt-based catalysts and the underlying structureactivity correlations are considered below.The importance of Al speciation in improving catalyst performance and stability was investigated by Shi et al. The effect of surface penta-coordinated (AlV), Al3+ sites on a PtSn/γ-Al2O3 nanosheet catalyst was investigated and after a 24 h reaction, a 4.1% drop in propane conversion with 45% propene yield was observed, corresponding to a STY of 95 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 3, entry 8).49 By comparison, the conventional PtSn/γ-Al2O3 catalyst rapidly deactivated, retaining only 65% of its initial activity. The PtSn/γ-Al2O3 nanosheet catalyst also exhibited enhanced activity due to the high proportion of AlV sites and their ability to uniformly disperse and stabilise PtSn clusters.Jang et al. explored calcination process parameters, namely temperatures of 600 C and 750 C, to modulate the surface properties of PtSn/γ-Al2O3 catalysts.50 It was shown that calcination at 600 C resulted in a 41.2% propene yield over a 20 h DDH reaction, equivalent to a STY of 51 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 3, entry 7). The increased sintering resistance of the metal was ascribed to stabilization from the larger fraction of AlV, strong Lewis acid sites, which enhanced the metalsupport interactions and suppressed coke deposition.Yu et al. investigated the influence of solgel (Sg), hydrothermally synthesized (Hd) and commercially (C) obtained Al2O3 in tuning the coordination structure of Al3+ species in PtGa/Al2O3 catalysts.51 At 580 C, initial propene yields of 63.5% and 57.5% were observed for PtGa/Hd-Al2O3 and PtGa/Sg-Al2O3, respectively. PtGa/Hd-Al2O3 achieved a STY of 32 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 2, entry 6). It was shown that AlV sites facilitate high dispersion of the active Pt and Ga ions, and result in strong metalsupport interactions. Additionally, hydrogen spillover was more effective due to the increased dispersion, which aided the desorption of H2 from the catalyst. This study demonstrated the importance of careful support preparation and the importance of the support surface in determining support metal nanoparticle dispersion and catalytic activity.The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO252 has been undertaken with some promising results. In the case of TiO2, it was shown that the addition of 10 and 20 wt% TiO2 to Al2O3 greatly enhanced the activity of the catalyst. The most active catalyst, a Pt/TiO2Al2O3 catalyst (with a TiO2 loading of 20 wt%) exhibited an initial STY of 86 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 3, entry 14). The enhanced performance was ascribed to electron transfer and acid site modulation effects resulting in changes to the adsorption properties of Pt. Similarly, Chen et al. reported a Ptln/LaAlO3/γ-Al2O3 catalyst with an initial STY of 26 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 3, entry 10).53 Alternative supports, such as calcined hydrotalcite, Mg(Al)Ox, have also been extensively investigated. Pt/Mg(Al)Ox modified with ln was prepared using the co-precipitation method by Tolek et al. At 550 C, the catalyst achieved an initial propane conversion of 24.2% and 98.2% selectivity to propene.54 This corresponded to a STY of 7.8 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 3, entry 1). The Pt/Mg(ln)(Al)O catalyst performance was attributed to a high fraction of metallic state ln (In0) coupled with a high Pt dispersion with an average Pt particle size of 0.91 nm. Shen et al. prepared Pt/Mg(ln)(Al)O catalysts, where promising results were obtained by altering the calcination temperature and Mg/Al ratio.55 An optimised Mg/Al ratio of 4 led to an initial STY of 45 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 620 C (Table 3, entry 16). These optimised Pt/Mg(Al)O catalyst materials were characterised by having the lowest fraction of strong acid sites and highest specific surface areas. Wu et al. studied zinc-modified PtSn/Mg(Al)Ox, which exhibited an initial STY of 47 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 3, entry 5).56 Doping the support with an optimal amount of Zn resulted in smaller, and more uniformly dispersed metal particles distributed on the Mg(Al)Ox support. Overall, there have been several attempts to enhance catalyst activity through introducing a second metal to Al2O3 to form a mixed metal oxide support, or by preparing Al containing layered double hydroxides. Generally these have been shown to modestly boost catalyst performance, and the role of the second metal in most cases is to either enhance the dispersion of Pt, or adjust the acidbase properties of the support to inhibit side reactions.Zeolites have been studied as potential supports for Pt-based catalysts due to their high surface areas, well-defined pore architectures and tuneable acid properties.57,58 Wannapakdee et al. explored silicate-1 and Al2O3 based monometallic Pt catalysts.59 The performance over 10 h on-stream differed between the Pt/silicalite-1 and Pt/Al2O3 materials, shown by >99% and 60% propene selectivity, respectively. The modified hierarchical pore structure, high specific surface area and presence of weak acid sites on Pt/silicalite-1 was concluded to be beneficial. Other zeolites which have been listed in patent literature for DDH of propane include Ta incorporated MCM-68, and H-ZSM-5.60,61 In addition, non-zeolite porous silicates have been successfully applied to Pt nanoparticles.62 PtZn nanoclusters encapsulated in silicalite-1 was investigated by Wang et al., An initial STY of 66 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 was measured, along with excellent cyclic stability during four DDH cycles at 600 C (Table 3, entry 13).63 Xu et al. evaluated a series of PtSn/Si-beta catalysts with different Pt/Sn ratios at 570 C and reported high initial propane conversions, ca. 50%, irrespective of Pt/Sn ratio.64 The PtSn2/Si-beta demonstrated an initial propene yield of 47.5%, which decreased by 3.4% over a 48 h reaction period, in contrast to the unmodified Pt/Si-beta catalyst which displayed a 47% reduction in the propene yield under identical reaction conditions. Through extensive characterisation the enhanced performance and stability was attributed to ultra-small, uniformly dispersed particles, ranging in size from 1.0 to 1.4 nm, consistent with previous studies that observed structure-sensitivity. It was found that embedding Sn in the zeolite framework was an effective geometric diluter for Pt ensembles resulting in smaller, isolated Pt clusters which increase propene selectivity.Wu et al. investigated the importance of sub-surface layers in supported nanoparticles. They reported that a Pt3Mn/SiO2 catalyst was enhanced by the presence of a Pt3In subsurface layer (compared with a Pt subsurface layer). The optimised catalyst exhibited an initial STY of 41 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 3, entry 4).65 Computational and experimental results suggested the role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface. Continuous testing for a week revealed long-term stability, and particle size distributions in the spent catalysts that were similar to those of the fresh catalysts. While the results in this work reveal a crucial role in the sub-surface composition of the catalyst, this aspect of catalyst design is often overlooked. Another sometimes neglected area of catalyst design is the role of heat treatments in modifying the nanostructure of the supported phase. Deng et al. reported highly selective Pt/SiO2 and PtSn/SiO2 catalysts prepared under oxidative, reductive and inert atmospheres.66 The PtSn/SiO2 materials prepared in inert and reductive atmospheres displayed initial propene yields of 17.8% and 25.7%, respectively. This was attributed to the reductive treatment and the presence of Sn which induced electronic and surface modifications of Pt nanoparticles following direct reduction in an H2 atmosphere at temperatures in excess of 500 C.67,68 Pt-Based catalysts supported on a boron-modified ZrO2 have been reported by Miao et al.69 The most active and stable catalyst, PtSn/B-ZrO2, achieved a STY of 13 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, that was attributed to the moderate surface acidity of B-ZrO2 (Table 3, entry 2). Wang et al. explored the use of hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) nanosheets as a support for PtCu clusters (with 0.01 wt% Pt and 1.0 wt% Cu loadings).70 This afforded a STY of 20 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 600 C, respectively (Table 3, entry 10). The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity. When tested under identical reaction conditions, this catalyst showed enhanced STY and stability compared to analogous catalysts supported on MgAl2O4, H-ZSM-5, SBA-15, SiC and Al2O3. The h-BN nanosheets provided abundant stacking fault edges terminated with BO defects that are associated with unpaired electrons, which strongly interact with active metal species, helping to strengthen the interaction between the metal and support.71,72 Finally, other support materials which have been included in patent literature over the years have tried to improve upon the catalytic activity of those currently used in industrial processes. Support materials such as carbon nanotubes and nanodiamonds tend to impart good dispersion and high stability of Pt nanoparticles,7375 whereas a support made entirely of TiO2 was shown to exhibit high activity while reducing carbon deposition.76 Au and Sn supported Pt has also been investigated, as well as various metallic sulfide materials, all designed to increase the activity of the catalyst.77,78 In summary, supported Pt catalysts constitute a major category of DDH catalysts, and have been studied extensively. Improvements in performance have been realised by tuning the particle size, promotion with other elements and selecting appropriate supports. Structureactivity relationships have been observed with regards to particle size, composition (presence of promotor/metal), as well as metalsupport interactions. Control of these variables has been shown to influence the catalytic properties, and the reaction mechanism. Table 3 compares the activity of Pt catalysts over a wide range of conditions and with different supports and promotors. PtSn and PtGa supported on Al2O3 (often but not always γ-Al2O3) are the most active in this class of DDH catalyst, which is unsurprising given their application in commercial catalysts. Additionally, the incorporation of Ti into an Al2O3 support appears to boost activity significantly. Finally, PtZn/silicalite-1 also exhibited a high STY, but Zn has not received the same attention as other promotors. Further studies may reveal that this bimetallic catalyst can compete with the current commercial catalysts.
4.2. Cr-Oxide based DDH catalysts
Chromium oxide-based catalysts have been extensively studied for DDH since the pioneering work by Frey and Huppke in 1933.80 This proved the importance of Cr2O3 as a key catalyst component for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes to their corresponding alkenes at relatively high temperature and low pressure. Since the discovery of Cr-based dehydrogenation catalysts, several industrial companies have developed commercial dehydrogenation processes and catalysts.
Understanding the nature of the active chromium sites is fundamental to optimizing catalyst properties and limiting catalyst deactivation. Considerable research efforts have been undertaken to understand the nature of active sites and factors influencing catalytic performance in CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts.81,82 Spectroscopic analysis reveals a number of surface species with different oxidation states (Cr6+, Cr5+, Cr3+, Cr2+) and speciation (chromates, polychromates, crystalline and amorphous phases).8386 Weckhuysen et al. demonstrated that two types of surface chromium oxide species exist with differences in their reducibility: monomeric and polymeric species.87 The relative concentration of different Cr surface species is strongly influenced by chromium loading and specific surface area of the selected support. Various studies have shown that low Cr loadings contribute to the dispersion of monomeric Cr6+ species, with some Cr3+ species and coordinative vacancies also being observed.8891 Meanwhile, at high Cr loadings, polymeric Cr3+ species exist as clusters and/or crystalline Cr2O3. This limits the accessibility of the reactants to the Cr sites, thus limiting catalytic activity.
Therefore, different surface Cr species are known to coexist in the Cr-oxide based supported catalysts, causing differences in the catalytic performance for DDH. In particular, it has been reported that the redox cycle between active Cr6+ and Cr3+ species are responsible for the activity in the dehydrogenation reaction, but the reduction of Cr6+ to Cr3+ is rapid under reaction conditions.9193 Thus, dehydrogenation activity has been mostly attributed to monomeric Cr3+ and less so to polymeric Cr3+ and Cr2+ sites produced in the initial steps of the DDH reaction. This is in agreement with De Rossi et al. who reported a correlation between DDH activity and the concentration of the coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ species over CrOx/Al2O3 and CrOx/SiO2 catalysts.94 Additionally, through IR spectroscopy studies of CO and NO adsorption, the authors concluded that the most active Cr3+ species had two coordinative vacancies.
As described above, the HoriutiPolanyi mechanism is widely accepted as the mechanism for the DDH reaction. However, an alternative dehydrogenation mechanism for Cr-based catalysts has been suggested,95,96 which proceeds as follows:i. The formation of Cr3+C3H8 species. ii. Heterolytic activation of the CH bond of Cr3+C3H8 results in a Cr3+C3H7 intermediate. iii. The Cr3+C3H7 intermediate undergoes β-H elimination to form Cr3+C3H6 + H species. iv. Propene desorption and formation of CrH species. v. Desorption of H2 due to proton transfer, completing the reaction cycle.
During the DDH process, the rate determining steps are the activation of the propane molecule to form the adsorbed Cr3+C3H7 intermediate, and the β-H transfer to form the Cr3+C3H6 hydride surface species which can significantly affect the DDH performance. In this instance, it is proposed that Cr3+O surface species can activate propane via sigma-bond metathesis by generating a Cralkyl intermediate that subsequently undergoes β-hydride elimination to form propene.92,95 As a catalyst support component, Al2O3 has been widely used in alkane dehydrogenation processes due to its appropriate chemical properties, high structural stability and low cost. However, an inherent and major problem of the CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst system is rapid deactivation, which occurs as a consequence of coke formation. Cr nanoparticles dispersed on a series of rod-shaped porous alumina supports, followed by calcination at various temperatures (T), denoted CrAl-T, were prepared by Gao et al.97 Catalytic tests, at 600 C, revealed that CrAl-800 afforded an initial propene yield of 30%, from which it was inferred that the reducibility and lower surface acidity of the CrAl-800 catalyst were advantageous, leading to a higher proportion of DDH active Cr3+ species and better anti-coking ability. Over the course of five dehydrogenationregeneration cycles, the CrAl-800 catalyst demonstrated superior regenerative ability, and the initial STY was 60 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 4, entry 9), which is comparable to many of the Pt catalysts reported in the literature.
Table 4 Summary of catalytic performance over various reported Cr-based catalysts for DDH Entry Catalyst T/C Feed composition WHSV /h1 XC3H8/% SC3H6/% STY/molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 Ref. 1 Zn0.3Cr 480 C3H8/Ar = 1:19 0.5 21 94 2.1 108 2 Cr2.5Ni5.0/Al2O3 550 C3H8/Ar = 1:9 1.2 47 95 11 101 3 Cr10Zr90/SiO2 550 C3H8/N2 = 2:3 4.3 15 95 13 103 4 Cr2Zr30/SiO2-600 550 C3H8/N2 = 2:3 7.4 20 95 29 104 5 KCrZr5Ox 550 C3H8/He = 1:14 1.2 54 95 13 107 6 CsP/CrZrOx 550 C3H8/N2 = 2:3 5.9 30 97.5 38 106 7 CrOx/H-ZSM-5 (260) 580 C3H8/N2 = 1:19 0.6 60.8 78.2 5.9 102 8 CrOx/Al2O3 600 C3H8/He = 1:14 1.2 41.8 89.8 9.3 99 9 CrOx/Al2O3 600 C3H8 9.5 33.2 90.4 60 97 10 Cr7.5/Al2O3 600 C3H8/Ar = 1:4 2.4 62.5 88.5 27 98 11 CeCrOx/Al2O3 630 C3H8/N2 = 1:6.1 1.2 86 78 17 100 T = reaction temperature; feed composition = molar ratio of C3H8/H2/carrier in the reaction, XC3H8 = initial propane conversion, SC3H6 = initial propene selectivity, STY = space time yield.
Lang et al. compared the Cr loading in a number of CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts.98 The 7.5 wt% Cr/Al2O3 catalyst exhibited superior catalytic performance, exhibiting an initial propene selectivity and yield of 88.5% and 55.3%, respectively. This corresponded to a STY of 27 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 4, entry 11). The surface Cr6+/Cr3+ ratios produce differences in the reducibility of the catalysts and a direct correlation between increasing Cr metal loading and Cr6+/Cr3+ ratios exists, leading to increased activity, decreased propene selectivity and excellent regenerative ability.
Wgrzyniak et al. investigated the influence of both mesoporous alumina and chromium metal loading in the range of 130 wt%.99 The yield of propene achieved at 550 C increased from 10.4 to 31.7% with 1 to 20 wt% Cr loading, however, further increase in Cr loading caused a decrease in the propene yield. The highest STY was achieved over the 20wt% CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, which achieved 9.3 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 4, entry 8), with a Cr concentration of 6.6 Cr atoms nm2 which corresponded to 18% of Cr redox species. In agreement with catalytic activity, beyond this concentration of Cr the formation rate declines rapidly with the subsequent drop-in activity correlating well with the appearance of α-Cr2O3 crystallites located outside of the mesopore system. The catalytic performance after four dehydrogenationregeneration cycles of the 20 wt% CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst did not show any significant differences, demonstrating good long-term stability. The irreversible initial deactivation in the consecutive DDH cycles was attributed to either: (i) structural changes of active species (such as agglomeration), or (ii) collapse of pore structure.
Numerous efforts have been made to improve the performance of the CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst using different promoting elements. Notably, Zhang et al. reported the modification of a commercial CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst with Ce, which decreased the amount of inactive isolated Cr6+ sites.100 This increased the amount of oxygen vacancies on the catalyst, thus promoting the interaction between Ce and Cr species. Consequently the CeCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, when tested at 630 C, displayed an STY of 17 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 4, entry 12) and better regeneration ability over four cycles than that of the corresponding CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst over a single regeneration cycle.
Ni-Modified CrOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts (5 wt% Ni and Cr loading) exhibited enhanced activity and selectivity to monometallic Ni/γ-Al2O3 and CrOx/γ-Al2O3, displaying an initial conversion of 47%, propene selectivity of 95% and yield of 44.7% at 550 C. This equates to a STY of 11 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 4, entry 2).101 The presence of Ni promoted the formation of oligomeric Cr species and specifically Cr3+ active sites.
Other metal oxides have been utilised as supports for Cr-based catalysts in an attempt to improve the catalyst stability, including materials such as ZrO2, mesoporous SiO2 and nanocarbons. He et al. investigated the effect of Cr loading on mesoporous MCM-41 with the CrOx/MCM-41 (10 wt% loading) catalyst displaying a propene yield of 47.5% at 630 C.93 FT-IR analysis of this material suggested that high Cr loadings depleted surface hydroxyls, which were postulated to be essential for suppressing coke deposition.
The influence of surface acidity on activity has been investigated more in-depth by Hu et al. who prepared SiO2, Al2O3 and H-ZSM-5 (SiO2/Al2O3 = 28, 43, 80 and 260) supported Cr (5 wt%) catalysts.102 Under identical reaction conditions, the CrOx/H-ZSM-5 (nominal SiO2/Al2O3 ratio = 260) materials displayed better catalytic performance and stability than a commercial CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, maintaining ca. 32.6% conversion and 94.2% propene selectivity after 50 h on stream. The authors attributed this enhanced performance to a high dispersion of Cr species, moderate acidity and strong metalsupport interactions in the CrOx/H-ZSM-5(260) catalyst. Fig. 5 illustrates the effect of surface acidity and Cr loading on the propene formation rate. Additionally, it was found that the CrOx/H-ZSM-5(260) catalyst possessed strong anti-coking capability over long-term testing.
Fig. 5 Catalytic performance of the CrOx catalysts on different supports. (a) Propene formation rates of the supported CrOx catalysts before and after 5 h on-stream. (b) Initial propene formation rates of 5% CrOx/H-ZSM-5 catalysts as a function of SiO2/Al2O3 ratio. (c) Initial propene formation rates of CrOx/H-ZSM-5(260) catalysts as a function of Cr loading amount. (d) Stability testing (propene formation rates) of 5% CrOx/H-ZSM-5(260) catalyst at a WHSV of 0.59 and 5.9 h1 for 50 h time-on-stream. The tests in (ac) were performed at a WHSV of 0.59 h1. Reproduced from ref. 102 with permission from Elsevier.
Moreover, Han et al. introduced Zr as a promoting element for Cr-catalysts on a number of supports (Al2O3, AlSiOx, SiTiO2 and SiO2).103 The Zr addition improved the turnover frequency for all Cr loadings when compared to analogous Cr-only catalysts and it was found that the greatest promotional effect was observed over the smallest ZrO2 crystallites. The order of reactivity was: CrZr/SiO2 > CrZr/AlSiOx > CrZr/SiTiOx. Likewise, the degree of crystallinity in CrZr/SiO2 catalysts proved to be an important structural property affecting both the rates of propene and coke formation.104 With increasing calcination temperature (450600 C) the catalysts displayed enhanced activity, selectivity and long-term stability (150 h) over consecutive dehydrogenation/regeneration cycles. However, the catalyst calcined at 600 C exhibited a STY of 13 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 4, entry 3).
Fujdala and Tilley reported CrOx/Si/Al/Ox and CrOx/Si/Zr/Ox catalysts exhibiting propene yields in excess of 33% at 450 C.105 Further improvements were observed when basic promoters (Cs and Ca) were added to CrZr/Al2O3 catalysts which displayed a superior propene formation rate of 38 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 after modification of the support with an acidic P-based modifier (Table 4, entry 6).106 The positive effect was attributed to the promoters ability to block the sites responsible for coke formation and negligible contribution to undesirable secondary reactions by the additional acid sites generated by the P-based modifier.Mixed metal oxide catalysts have also been widely studied in the context of Cr-based catalysts. Wgrzyniak et al. demonstrated that ordered mesoporous CrZrO and CrZrKO catalysts had improved catalytic performance compared to CrOx/Al2O3 materials and other promising catalysts in the DDH process.107 It was found that all the catalysts modified with K displayed respectable regeneration ability as well as an improvement in the catalyst's STY, which was measured to be 13 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 4, entry 5).Another series of binary ZnCr mixed oxides with different Zn/Cr molar ratios (00.5) proved advantageous for the DDH reaction.108 An optimal Zn/Cr ratio of 0.3 produced a highly active catalyst which displayed conversion, propene selectivity and propene yield values of 31.3%, 94% and 29.4%, respectively. The activity of the binary-component oxide catalyst was attributed to the defect-rich spinel structure, which generated a higher concentration of active Cr3+ species.In summary, the dehydrogenation performance of CrOx-based catalysts is largely influenced by the catalyst preparation method, identity of the support, as well as the promoting elements and active sites present in the resultant catalyst. The aforementioned factors influence activity, selectivity and stability and can be enhanced by optimizing elements of the catalyst design process. The most common deactivation pathway is coking, which can cause sintering in both the support and Cr. Efforts to improve catalyst design include using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity, both of which aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Numerous Cr deposition methods have been explored, with novel surface organometallic chemistry methods emerging as viable preparation methods for ensuring isolated CrOx species, although these may not be appropriate for large-scale application. Promoting elements have been found to cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and CrOx species. However, recent advances in unsupported, binary metal oxides have been successful in yielding catalysts with respectable activity, selectivity and resistance to coking. However, significant environmental and safety concerns still exist in the preparation, usage and disposal of CrOx-based catalysts due to the associated toxicity. In comparison to Pt catalysts, CrOx catalysts generally exhibit lower STYs, although the most active CrOx catalysts (typically supported on Al2O3) are as active as moderate supported Pt catalysts.
4.3. Ga-Based DDH catalysts
Historically, a bifunctional Ga/H-ZSM-5 material has been applied as a catalyst for the commercial process for propane aromatization, developed jointly by UOP and BP as the Cyclar Process.109,110 More recently, the Dow FCDh process was developed which uses a PtGa based catalyst. Gallium oxide (GaOx)-based catalysts have been the subject of intensive research as candidate catalysts and/or supports for the DDH reaction. This is because Ga is another non-noble metallic element known to catalyse the dehydrogenation of propane, usually through oxidic, tetrahedrally coordinated Ga3+ species, which are considered to be active sites for CH activation.111,112 However, several surface gallium species (e.g., Ga2O3, GaO+ and Gan+) can exist and are considered active constituents exhibiting different performance for the DDH reaction. Furthermore, the types of surface Ga species present are dependent on the identity of the support, Ga loading, as well as the preparation method.
Numerous studies have shown that Ga2O3 dispersed on TiO2, MgO, Al2O3, ZrO2, H-ZSM-5, ZSM-8 and MWW zeolites display distinctly different catalytic properties for alkane dehydrogenation.113116 Sattler et al. reported a Pt-promoted Ga/γ-Al2O3 species (Pt3Ga/γ-Al2O3) as a highly promising catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, which showed remarkably high activity, selectivity, and long-term stability.117 For catalysts containing both Ga and a low amount of Pt (0.1 wt%), the observed conversion was close to the equilibrium value, 55% at 620 C with the addition of Pt as a promoter facilitating recombination of hydrogen atoms into H2. By modulating the support acidity further with a K-dopant, the resultant Pt3GaK/γ-Al2O3 catalyst demonstrated enhanced stability, displaying a propane conversion of 31.1% and a selectivity for propene of 92.6% after approximately 150 cycles or 14 days of operation. The authors postulated the main active site for CH activation was Ga3+ embedded within the γ-Al2O3 framework.
Further investigations by Searles et al. showed that a Gaδ+Pt0/SiO2 catalyst, featuring a highly dispersed GaxPt alloy structure, had a long-term stability evident in unchanged propene selectivity (>99%) over the course of a 20 h DDH reaction.118 Both the moderate surface acidity of the support and good dispersion of the generated gallium single-sites proved beneficial. Additionally, the monometallic Ga3+/SiO2 catalyst also displayed minimal deactivation over a 20 h DDH reaction, retaining a high propene selectivity (94%) throughout.
A comparative approach to study the effect of the support acidity was taken by Szeto et al. through which marked differences were observed in the reactivity of silica and alumina supported Ga catalysts.119 An initial conversion and selectivity of 24% and 79%, respectively, were reported for Ga/Al2O3. The STY was 5.9 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 5, entry 4). On the other hand, the Ga/SiO2 catalyst was reported to have low activity (8% conversion initially) and moderately high selectivity to propene (90%) under identical testing conditions. This highlights the importance of selecting an appropriate support for different active centres.
Table 5 Performance of selected Ga-based catalysts for the DDH reaction Entry Catalyst T/C Feed composition WHSV /gC3H8 gcat1 h1 XC3H8/% SC3H6/% STY/molC3H6 kg1cat h1 Ref. 2 Ga125-Rh 450 C3H8/He = 1:9 0.88 29 95 5.0 126 3 Ga/SiO2 550 C3H8/Ar = 1:4 2.4 10 90 4.5 49 4 Ga/Al2O3 550 C3H8/Ar = 1:4 1.5 24 79 5.9 119 5 Ga-MFI 600 C3H8/Ar = 1:19 0.79 41 75 3.7 123 6 Ga-MFI 600 C3H8/Ar = 1:19 2.4 12.2 82 4.9 122 7 Ga/SBA-15 620 C3H8/Ar = 1:19 0.6 29.7 92 3.3 121 8 Ga/Al2O3 620 C3H8/Ar = 1:19 0.6 46 95.2 5.5 121 9 Ga/H-ZSM-5 620 C3H8/Ar = 1:19 0.6 78.1 60.2 5.9 121 T = reaction temperature; feed composition = molar ratio of C3H8/H2/carrier in the reaction, XC3H8 = initial propane conversion, SC3H6 = initial propene selectivity, STY = space time yield.
Cybulskis et al. reported that the preparation strategy could greatly influence the structure of Ga/SiO2 catalysts.120 Utilizing a pH-controlled incipient-wetness impregnation method the resultant catalyst contained a high proportion of isolated Lewis acidic Ga3+ sites dispersed on SiO2, with the ability to activate hydrocarbon CH bonds with up to 99% selectivity through a non-redox pathway at 550 C. A variety of spectroscopic characterisation methods further verified isolated four-coordinate Ga3+O centres as catalytically relevant sites in these Ga/SiO2 catalysts. Meanwhile the Gaδ+H and Gaδ+O species, which were identified as spectators, remained stable in inert and reductive atmospheres from room temperature to 550 C, before reversibly decomposing in the presence of C3H6 under reaction conditions to regenerate the Lewis acidic Ga3+O centres.
Other supports (H-ZSM-5, SBA-15, γ-Al2O3 and SiO2) and the effect of Ga loading have also been investigated. Shao et al. established an optimal Ga loading of 5 wt%, reporting an initial propene yield on different supports that followed the trend: Ga/H-ZSM-5 (48%) > Ga/γ-Al2O3 (43%) > Ga/SBA-15 (28%) > Ga/SiO2 (9%) (Table 5, entries 79).121 This was attributed to differences in surface acidity between supports, with strong acid sites largely determining the dispersion of Ga species, as well as inducing adverse side reactions. Zeolite supports can in principle hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules due to their unique framework and channel structure, which are beneficial to the catalytic stability. Consequently, it was found that the Ga/H-ZSM-5 catalyst displayed the highest initial activity but lowest stability. Factors such as the highest specific surface area and lowest acidity were associated with the superior catalytic stability of the Ga/SBA-15 catalyst over the 30 h DDH reaction at 620 C.
Further improvements reported by Kim et al. explored the catalytic function of Ga-based catalysts supported on bulk and hierarchical MFI-type zeolites, where Ga was used in place of Al.122 Catalytic testing at 600 C revealed substantial activity, selectivity and stability improvements in hierarchical Ga/MFI relative to the corresponding bulk Ga/MFI catalyst. The authors hypothesized that the enhanced activity and selectivity of the hierarchical catalysts arose from their quasi-2D structure and lower surface acidity. Generally, it is accepted that lowering the surface acidity can further enhance the catalytic performance of a DDH catalyst. The addition of 3-mercaptopropyl-trimethoxysilane (MPS) reduces Brnsted and increases Lewis acid sites in the preparation Ga/MFI catalysts, which resulted in improved performance.123 When compared to a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, the Ga/MFI catalyst, although less selective, was more stable and retained the moderate propene selectivity over the 12 h DDH reaction. Acidity characterization techniques confirmed a high concentration of strong Lewis acid sites and a reduction in the concentration of Brnsted acid sites in the Ga-MFI catalyst (Table 5, entries 5 and 6).
Schreiber et al. further verified the active sites for MFI supported Ga catalysts with moderate acidity, reporting an optimal Ga/Al ratio of 0.5, which enhanced the dehydrogenation rate.124 The authors attributed high Ga/Al ratios (>0.5) with the formation of additional GaxOy clusters which negatively affected the dehydrogenation rate and thus catalytic performance. Therefore, for Ga/MFI zeolites a synergy between Ga+ species and a Brnsted acid site (BAS) (optimised to one Ga+ per BAS) exists forming a LewisBrnsted acid pair during the dehydrogenation of propane. DFT calculations indicated that the generated LewisBrnsted acid pair is much more active than an isolated Ga+, due to the large increase in Lewis acidity upon protonation of Ga+ by the BAS, which facilitates heterolytic CH bond activation. The BAS also significantly reduces the activation barrier for H2 elimination by recombination with a hydride. This was in agreement with findings by Phadke et al.125 Using a different approach, Raman et al. reported the synthesis of GaRh supported catalytically active liquid metal solutions.126 A correlation between alloy composition and specific activity was observed with Ga125Rh exhibiting STYs of 5.0 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 5, entry 1). Bauer et al. reported that an alternative liquid metal solution, Ga37Pt/Al2O3, exhibited propane conversion as low as 350 C.127 The GaPt alloy melts at temperatures between 270 C and 330 C.20 At 400 C and 450 C, selectivity to propene was ca. 95% and 90%, respectively and activity was attributed to isolated Pt atoms in the supported liquid GaPt alloy.
In summary, GaOx based catalysts are promising propane dehydrogenation candidates. However, these catalysts are limited by deactivation through coke formation and the sintering of GaOx species which are dependent on the support, Ga loading and preparation method. Studies have also shown the advantages of incorporating promoter elements and/or the formation of intermetallic alloys in enhancing the dehydrogenation performance. Ga catalysts generally exhibit STYs that are one order of magnitude lower than Pt catalysts, and the most active CrOx catalysts, but have the advantage of being benign and inexpensive.
4.4. V-Based DDH catalysts
Vanadium-based catalysts have garnered increased interest as alternative materials to Pt- and Cr-based catalysts for the DDH reaction, to their comparative low cost and toxicity. Numerous studies have elucidated the effect of the preparation method, vanadium loading, promoter and support characteristics on the surface chemistry and catalyst performance of vanadium species.128131 Generally, the oxidation state of vanadium (i.e., V3+, V4+, V5+) determines the catalytic activity.132 In addition, the distribution of V oxidation states is controlled by the V loading, which in turn influences the degree of polymerization. It has been reported that V5+ is the least active, whereas V4+ and V3+ species (generated from the reduction of V5+) are more active in the DDH reaction.133137 Additionally, these studies suggest that a number of VOx species exist including monovanadate (isolated V), polyvanadate (oligomeric Vn+) and V2O5 crystallites.
The nature of the support is an essential parameter to consider as several possible VOx can species exist. It is generally accepted that the metalsupport (VOsupport) interactions affect the resultant catalyst performance.138 It is proposed that VOsupport bonds are active sites, as lattice oxygen in VO bonds directly catalyses CH activation forming H2. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond. Therefore, it is expected that catalyst performance is affected when different supports, such as SiO2, Al2O3 and ZrO2 are utilised.
From a comparison of VOx/MCM-41, CrOx/MCM-41 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, it was shown that VOx/MCM-41 exhibited superior propene selectivity (above 90%) and stability during several successive dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.90 Subsequent studies expounded on the importance of the support surface acidity on a range of aluminosilicates with varying SiO2 contents.139 Sokolov et al. investigated the effect of the support on the stability of Al2O3, SiO2 and AlSiOx supported VOx catalyst. It was reported that at 1 wt% V/AlSiOx (with 10 wt% SiO2 in the support) was only around 25% less active than a PtSn/Al2O3 comparison sample. However, the STY of this most active catalyst at 550 C was 5.1 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 1), which is an order of magnitude below the values commonly reported for supported Pt catalysts tested at 600 C, suggesting that more active PtSn catalysts can be prepared than the one reported in this work. The catalyst deactivated quickly due to carbon deposition, but retained its initial activity over the course of ten successive dehydrogenationregeneration cycles. The authors observed a positive correlation between the rate of coke formation and the acidity of the support, as well as reporting that coke can actually catalyse the DDH reaction. Additional studies attributed the dependence of coke formation on the degree of polymerization of VOx species over catalysts supported on a range of aluminosilicates, with differing SiO2 contents varying from 1 to 100 wt%.140 It was concluded that coke preferentially formed on larger V2O5 crystallites rather than small or isolated VOx species.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the ultrafast zeolite crystallization strategy developed by Yu et al. address the time-scale mismatch challenges in direct synthesis procedures for metal encapsulation, and what are its effects on the formation, structure, and catalytic performance of PtSn clusters within ZSM-5 zeolites, particularly in the context of propane conversion?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 