4.8 Raman Spectroscopy
In studies of Ce-doped CoCr2O4 catalyst for methane oxidation, Cr was substituted by Ce from 2% to 100%, and the material was characterized by Raman, XRD, and XPS. XRD suggested that a single phase solid solution was produced up to 10% substitution. Raman spectra were used to identify vibrations associated with pure phase materials and with the doped chromite. (119) In situ measurements of Raman spectra under reaction conditions were combined with catalyst reactivity characterizations to evaluate the effect of alkali doping on the reducibility of vanadia supported on titania. (136) It was found that reducibility of the vanadia correlates with the Raman spectrum of the vanadyl group.
4.9 Fourier Transformed Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR)
The vibrational frequencies of metal–oxygen bonds is sensitive to the presence of dopant species at modest concentrations, and infrared spectroscopy has been used to support the fact that a doped oxide was prepared. (101) Athawale and colleagues compared the IR spectra of silver-doped lanthanum chromite catalysts, prepared by combustion synthesis, to undoped samples where literature values for the frequencies of the O–M and O–M–O vibrations were known. They inferred from the presence of new and shifted peaks in the absorption spectrum that Ag was present as a substitutional dopant. In situ FTIR has been used to determine catalytic mechanism by observation under reaction conditions, and various applications of this technique have been reviewed by Vimont (120) and by Lamberti et al. (137) Sharma et al. (138) showed the methanation of carbon oxides on ruthenium-doped ceria. The Ru-doped ceria catalyst did make methane from CO2 and H2 but not from CO and H2. Hydroxyls were not observed by FTIR, when the feed was CO and H2, whereas they were abundantly present when the feed was CO2 and H2. (138) Infrared spectroscopy can be used in the study of doped oxides by adsorbing molecules on the doped and the undoped oxides. Shifts in the vibrational frequencies of the adsorbate document the presence of the dopant in the surface. An example is provided by the work of Corma, (139, 140) who used shifts in the vibrational frequency of adsorbed CO to propose that CO oxidation by Au–ceria is due to ionic rather than metallic gold. It was proposed later that the ionic Au is likely to be a substitutional dopant. (141, 142)
The in situ IR is one of the many “operando” methods (reviewed by Bañares (121)), which combine the spectroscopic characterization of the material and adsorbed species with simultaneous measurement of catalytic activity/selectivity, and which was reviewed by Bañares. (121)
4.10 Probing Metal Oxides with Electrons
Electron microscopy provides morphological information and under favorable conditions good instruments can detect single atoms. (143) Many oxides are insulators, and care must be taken, when electrons are used to probe them, to avoid surface charging and surface damage. In an investigation of barium promoters on Ru metal catalysts, the Ba atoms were imaged in situ, and it was shown that it forms a BaO phase on the Ru metal nanoparticle, rather than dope the metal. (144) Typically, in doped oxides the dopants are present in concentrations around 5%. Promoters such as alkali metals are frequently applied by investigators, and high-resolution electron microscopy has shown that alkali-metal promoters can form isolated islands on metal nanoparticle catalysts and are not be dopants. (144) Wu et al., in a study of Zr-doped NiO for oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, verified by XRD that below 10% Zr there was no ZrO2 phase separation, and the material had the NiO structure with a changed lattice parameter, which suggested that Zr is a dopant. (126) The authors then performed HR-TEM and were able to visualize the atomic lattice of the nanocrystalline materials and measure the lattice spacing to show that it agreed with the XRD observations. At lower spatial resolutions, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) can be used to identify distinct crystalline structures or, qualitatively, the presence of multiple phases.
The monochromatic electron beams from TEM or SEM can be used for spectroscopic measurements at different sites of the sample to determine the local electronic and atomic structure and composition. Electron diffraction (ED, EDS) and electron stimulated X-ray emission spectroscopy (EDX) can be performed as well as measurements of the inelastic electron energy loss (EELS) from the incident beam. High-performance electron spectrometers are limited to an overall energy resolution (determined by the electron sources) of 0.5–2 eV. In a systematic study of a large group of V/Mn/Fe oxides, EELS spectra, obtained from a 500 keV SEM, were correlated to the metal ion oxidation states. (123) The results were sensitive to model fits and showed that care is required for getting meaningful data from SEM electron sources. No method exists that can unambiguously and universally determine oxidation states from EELS for all compounds.
4.11 Low-Energy Ion Scattering (LEIS)
LEIS is capable of determining the mass of the atoms in the surface layer by analyzing the energy loss of ions that have collided with the surface. Calibration relationships are constructed to obtain quantitative results. The experiments require vacuum, and the sample must be free of all environmental contamination to obtain meaningful data. Often the surface is cleaned by sputtering prior to the LEIS measurement. Less than 1% of a monolayer is inadvertently sputtered in the time it takes to obtain LEIS data. In their evaluation of yttrium-stabilized zirconia catalysts for methane partial oxidation, Zhu et al. used LEIS on the freshly prepared catalysts to determine the surface composition. (115) They found that the surfaces of several samples were contaminated with F, Na, K (or Ca), Al (or Si), and Cr (or Mn). The elements in parentheses indicate an uncertainty in the mass of the surface impurity. None of the contaminants were intentionally added. Because the precursors used to make doped oxides are often 99.99% pure, it is possible that the 0.01% impurities may accumulate at the surface and inadvertently dope the oxide. These unknown dopants can interfere with the ones added intentionally. Moreover, the unknown dopants can act to compensate the chemical effect of the dopants added intentionally. (145) LEIS is a particularly useful probe for doped oxide, and it is unfortunate that it is not more widely available.
4.12 Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry (SIMS)
Elemental composition as a function of distance from the surface can be obtained by bombarding the sample with energetic ions. A pulsed beam of ions (typically Cs or Ga) bombards the surface, and the mass of the ejected ions is measured. Successive layers are removed and analyzed in the process. Debecker et al. used a combination of XRD and SIMS to evaluate the differences in ternary Si/Al/Mo mixed oxide catalysts prepared by sol–gel and wet impregnation methods. (124) XRD showed the samples prepared by wet impregnation to be phase separated, when Mo content was as low as 8%, whereas even at 20% Mo the sol–gel samples were homogeneous. Oxide clusters containing more than one Mo were removed by SIMS from the surface of the wet impregnation samples, while only isolated Mo atoms were detected from the sol–gel prepared samples.
4.13 Thermal Gravimetric Analysis (TGA) and Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC)
Besides being used to examine coke production and desorption of impurities, the examination of phase transition temperatures and crystallization phenomena using DSC/TGA can help identify the formation of mixed phase materials and provide support that a doped oxide has been synthesized. De la Rosa and co-workers (122) used DSC to study La-, Mn-, and Fe-doped zirconia prepared by sol–gel synthesis and used as trichloroethylene combustion catalysts. A shift in the crystallization temperature of the doped material, determined by DSC, indicates that the dopant is incorporated in the bulk. (122)
4.14 Temperature Programmed Desorption (TPD) and Temperature Programmed Reaction (TPR)
TPD can be used by adsorbing molecules on the doped oxide, heating the sample, and measuring the composition of the gas desorbed from the surface. TPD with the as-prepared catalyst is used to determine the temperature at which O2 desorbs, or the temperature at which carbonates or hydroxyls present on the surface produce CO2 and water, respectively. Furthermore, specific reactions (e.g., the oxidation of an alkane by a doped oxide) can be monitored as the temperature is ramped up. Such measurements are particularly useful when a doped oxide is compared to the undoped one, or when comparing samples having the same host-oxide and various dopants.
Wu and co-workers (126) showed that O2 desorbs from Zr-doped NiO at much lower temperature than from undoped NiO. They also used TPR to monitor the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane and found that Zr-doped NiO is more selective than NiO but has lower ethane conversion.
Temperature programmed reaction provides a quick, preliminary way of testing whether a dopant affects strongly the reducibility of an oxide, its acidity, or its ability to perform a given reaction.