<quotes>

[1] "Catalytic hydrogenation of the CO bond is an important industrial reaction for organic synthesis. (315, 316) The selective hydrogenation of the CO bond in α,β-unsaturated aldehydes has been of growing interest for the production of fine chemicals and pharmaceutical precursors. (315, 317) More recently, CO bond hydrogenation has been considered as an important initial step in catalytic conversion of cellulosic biomass. (318, 319)"
[2] "In this section we will first use the hydrogenation of propanal over PtNi bimetallic catalysts as an example to demonstrate the correlation between DFT calculations of binding energies, UHV studies of low-temperature hydrogenation, and batch and flow reactor evaluation."
[3] "The excellent correlation between DFT predictions, UHV studies on model surfaces, and catalytic evaluation of supported catalysts demonstrates the feasibility to predict bimetallic catalysts with enhanced CO hydrogenation activity."
[4] "Using similar approaches, DFT calculations and reactor evaluations were performed for CO bond hydrogenation of acetaldehyde (246) and acetone (246, 247) over supported Pt3d bimetallic catalysts."
[5] "The selective hydrogenation of acrolein, the smallest α,β-unsaturated aldehyde, has been investigated on several 3d/Pt(111) surfaces."
[6] "The selective hydrogenation of acrolein has been extensively investigated over many Pt-based bimetallic catalysts."
[7] "The hydrogenation of maleic anhydride can produce many different products, but only some of the products are valuable in industry. Supported PtNi bimetallic catalysts showed higher hydrogenation activity than the corresponding monometallic catalysts."
[8] "The PtFe/SiO2 catalyst has been used for the partial hydrogenation of acetic acid."
[9] "Amines are important compounds for manufacturing dyes, solvents, detergents, and drugs. A simple method to form amines is by the reduction of amides, but amides are considered difficult to reduce. Burch et al. found that PtRe/TiO2 supported catalysts, synthesized by impregnation, were able to selectively hydrogenate the CO bond in N-methylpyrrolidin-2-one to form N-methylpyrrolidine, an amine."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The catalytic hydrogenation of C═O bonds, particularly using bimetallic catalysts like Pt-Ni systems, is crucial for organic synthesis in the production of fine chemicals and pharmaceutical precursors. It is also considered an important initial step in the catalytic conversion of cellulosic biomass. The process is studied and optimized through Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations of binding energies, Ultra-High Vacuum (UHV) studies of low-temperature hydrogenation, and batch and flow reactor evaluations. The excellent correlation between DFT predictions, UHV studies, and catalytic evaluation of supported catalysts demonstrates the feasibility of predicting bimetallic catalysts with enhanced CO hydrogenation activity. This methodology has been applied to the hydrogenation of acetaldehyde and acetone over supported Pt3d bimetallic catalysts, and the selective hydrogenation of acrolein has been extensively investigated over many Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. PtNi bimetallic catalysts have shown higher hydrogenation activity than monometallic catalysts in the hydrogenation of maleic anhydride. The PtFe/SiO2 catalyst has been used for the partial hydrogenation of acetic acid. PtRe/TiO2 supported catalysts have been found to selectively hydrogenate the CO bond in N-methylpyrrolidin-2-one to form N-methylpyrrolidine, an amine, which is important for manufacturing dyes, solvents, detergents, and drugs.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.使用Pt-Ni等双金属催化剂的C═O键催化氢化,对于有机合成中精细化学品和药物前体的生产至关重要。它也被认为是纤维素生物质催化转化的重要初始步骤。该过程通过密度泛函理论(DFT)计算结合能、超高压(UHV)研究低温氢化以及批式和流动反应器评估来研究和优化。DFT预测、UHV研究和支撑催化剂的催化评估之间的出色相关性证明了预测具有增强CO氢化活性的双金属催化剂的可行性。这种方法已应用于支持的Pt3d双金属催化剂上乙醛和丙酮的氢化,并且在许多基于Pt的双金属催化剂上对丙烯醛的选择性氢化进行了广泛研究。在马来酸酐的氢化中,PtNi双金属催化剂的氢化活性高于单金属催化剂。PtFe/SiO2催化剂已被用于乙酸的部分氢化。PtRe/TiO2支撑催化剂被发现可以有选择性地将N-甲基吡咯烷-2-酮中的CO键氢化为N-甲基吡咯烷,这是一种用于制造染料、溶剂、洗涤剂和药物的重要胺。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
