I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Journal of Molculur Catalysis, 59 ( 1990) 207-220 207
COKE ON CATALYSTS-HABMFUL,
HARMLESS, INVISIBLE
AND BFIC
TYPES
P. G. MENON
Research & Development Department, Dow Benelux N.V., 453OAA Terneuen (The Netherlands) and Department of Engineering Chemistry I, Chalmers University of Technology,412 96 Gothenburg (Sweden 1 Summary The deactivating influence of coke on catalysts depends very much on the nature of the coke, its structure and moholo,and the exact location of its deposition on the catalyst surface. When coke deposition occurs mainly on the carrier surface and not directly on the active sites, the catalyst can tolerate even 6-10 wt.% coke without much loss in activity. A relatively low coking rate (sometimes achieved by a proper feedstock blending) can prevent pore-mouth blockage and ensure efficient use of the available surface and activity of a catalyst. Continuous gasification of the coke formed in oxidation reactions can maintain steady activity and selectivity over long periods. The importance of a carbonaceous overlayer or intermediate in many hydrocarbon reactions and even the beneficial role of coke in some cases have also been recognized in several catalytic reactions on metals and oxides.Considerations of such less-negative aspects of coke on catalysts suggest that catalytic reactions may be broadly classified into (relatively) coke- sensitive and coke-insensitive types. The latter type very often results when the catalyst contains a strong hydrogenating function and there is an abundance of hydrogen under pressure in the system, Introduction The deactivation caused by coke deposition on solid catalysts is quite well known. Since such deactivation is expensive for the industry, very great efforts have been, and are being, devoted to the study of this problem. Several advances in chemical engineering and catalysis have been made mainly to minimize or overcome this problem; e.g. fluidized-bed operation was first developed to tackle rapid coking and catalyst deactivation in catalytic cracking; molecular sieves, particularly the ZSMd type, became such great successes thanks to the low degree of coking on these catalysts.In spite of these harmful aspects of coking, relatively harmless coking also occurs in many major industrial processes. Indeed, the exact structure,morphology and location of the coke are probably of far greater importance than the total quantity (weight) of coke on the catalyst. Instances are also 0304-5102/90/$3.50 @ Elsevier Sequoia/Printed in The Netherlands known of the carbonaceous species on the surface either playing a bcncflciu2 role or functioning as a partner of the reaction itself. This paper reviews and underlines some of these aspects of coke on catalysts on the molecular scale.This perspective differs from that regarding coke only as a deactivating function which fouls catalyst systems.Importance of coking in the petroleum industry In petroleum processing, the H/C atomic ratio of 1.5-1.8 of many feedstocks must be raised to 1.8-2.1 for most usable fuels (Fig. 1). This can be achieved in two ways: by adding more hydrogen or by knocking off some carbon. The first alternative is more expensive, though unavoidable in hydro-treating and in hydrocracking. The second and cheaper alternative is applied in fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) and delayed coking. In the United States alone, about 1 million tonnes of oil are cracked by FCC every day.Nearly 5% of this feedstock (50,000 tonnes/day) is converted into coke on the catalyst. This coke is burned to COz and Hz0 in the regenerator to produce the necessary heat for the endothermic cracking.In catalytic reforming, catalysts such as Pt/alumina or the bimetallic Pl+Re/alumina are slowly and deliberately coked to about 0.5 wt.% of coke on the catalyst. Thereafter the coking proceeds very slowly over 6-12 months, or even longer in the case of the bimetallic catalyst. Without this controlled coking at the start of the run, the catalyst will induce excessive hydrogenolysis and uncontrolled coking. The careful deposition of coke in this way exemplifies the intentional steering of catalytic reactions at the molecu- lar level, alluded to above. In a normal reforming cycle, the temperature of the catalyst bed is raised slowly to compensate for the very slow and gradual decline in activity. The coke on catalyst at the end of the cycle may amount to 6-8 wt.%.Hydrodesulfurization/hydrotreating catalysts can accommodate 10 wt.% or more of coke accumulated over a long period, provided this occurs slowly.These systems illustrate the macro effects of coking: it is important that rapid coke lay-down at the pore mouth should not cut off the rest of the pore
1.
0
I. 5
2.0
H/C
ATOMIC
RATIO
Fig. 1. Much of petroleum processing may be looked upon as efforts to raise the H/C ratio of the available feedstocks. 209 Pore- mouth 3 6 9 Time on stream [months) Fig. 2. (A) Schematic representation of slow coking and rapid coking, the latter leading to pore-mouth blockage in the catalyst; (B) Pore-mouth blockage necessitates a more rapid rise in reactor temperature and gives a much shorter cycle life for the catalyst. (Fig. 2). A slow coverage of the entire catalyst surface by coke should be ensured by both the design of the pore structure of the catalyst and the mode of process operation. Larger-pore diameter catalysts were developed for this purpose, especially for hydrotreating of heavier/residual oil fractions, about 20 years ago.In catalytic reforming, hydrotreating, hydrocracking and such proces- ses, where coke accumulates on the catalyst very slowly in the course of several months or even a few years, the temperature of the catalyst bed is raised gradually to compensate for the loss in activity. Very often, catalyst regeneration becomes necessary when the pressure drop due to coke laydown becomes too high, and not because of catalyst deactivation due to coke laydown.Coke formation on nickel surfaces The study of the mechanism of coke formation on nickel surfaces on a molecular scale is very important for two reasons: (a) because of coke formation on the walls of N&alloy tubular reactors as used industrially in steam cracking of e.g. naphtha and LPG to produce olefins and aromatics,and (b) because Ni catalysts are used at high temperatures for steam 210
TABLE 1
Penetration of carbon into a deactivated Ni/cu-Al,O, steam reforming catalyst; XPS analysis of elemental composition of the catalyst surface after ion sputtering to different depths Sputter time (min) Approx. etching depth bm) Element (at. %) Ni Al 0
C
0 0
6.3
25.7
54.4
13.6
3 5
9.5
25.1
52.5
12.8
10 17
10.1
31.3
47.9
10.7
20 34
12.3
28.5
52.8
6.4
40 68
11.1
31.6
54.3
3.0
Note the continuous decrease of C content with increasing penetration from the surface, while the Ni content increases up to -5 nm and thereafter remains practically constant.
Data from [61. reforming of hydrocarbons to produce synthesis gas (for methanol synthesis etc.) and hydrogen (for the fertilizer industry and other large-scale purposes). This is an area in which Rostrup-Nielsen and Trimm have conducted pioneering studies and have published fairly comprehensive reviews 11-41.Coke formation on nickel and iron surfaces is a peculiar insertion process, in which the coke can grow as tubular whiskers with a little metal crystallite at the tip of each whisker. Such whisker growth does not deactivate the catalyst, but it can destroy the catalyst mechanically. In the case of whisker growth in steam-cracking coils, severe metal dusting can occur, gradually leading to a decrease in wall thickness from 2.5 cm to about
1.5 cm in the course of a few years of coking and decoking operations 151.
In the case of steam reforming of methane on Nila-alumina catalysts,steady-state operations are possible with small amounts of coke on the catalyst. Deactivation of the catalyst can be caused for example by a deliberate shutting off of the hydrogen added to the feedstream. The cause of deactivation in such a case has been investigated [Sl by a temperature- programmed combustion of the coke on the catalyst, where a very slow coke combustion lasting for several hours even at 720 C was observed. Apparently the coke/carbon has dissolved/diffused into the bulk of the nickel crystallites;the diffusion of this carbon from the bulk to the surface causes the unusually slow combustion. This hypothesis was tested by XPS analysis of coke on the deactivated catalyst before and after ion-sputtering to different depths, as shown in Table 1. The carbon in the deactivated catalyst consisted of both amorphous/graphitic types (which cannot be differentiated by XPS) and carbidic type, and it had penetrated more than 70nm into the nickel crystallite.Types of coke Even with a single reactant and a single catalyst, different types of coke can be formed at different temperatures. These different types of coke can 211 also have different reactivities towards gases such as hydrogen, oxygen or steam. As McCarty and Wise showed [71, in general the coke deposited at a lower temperature can also react with gaseous hydrogen to form methane,and thus leave the catalyst surface at a relatively lower temperature. In this respect, the coke can be graded into young, medium I, medim II and old coke. The young coke can gradually lose its hydrogen content and slowly age to become the unreactive (towards hydrogen) or refractory type.The molecular structure of coke can vary markedly even with uot-so- large differences in the temperature of coke deposition. This has been shown very elegantly by Magnoux et al. [81 for coke formed from cyclohexene on ultra&able HY zeolite catalysts, using GC-MS, HPLC and NME techniques.The increasingly complex structure of coke with rise in temperature of coke deposition is shown below:at 120 C: trimer, tetramer and pentamer of cyclohexene and methyl cylopenne (one aromatic ring);at 200C: naphthalenic and phenanthrenic structures with methyl grouPs;at 350 C: pyrenic compounds with alkyl and naphthalenic groups at 450 C: clopentapene,indopyrene, Chicle-insoluble black particles The conditions for formation of coke are very important, not only in determining its molecular structure and subsequent reactivity towards hydrogen, oxygen or steam, as pointed out above, but also in governing its macroscopic structure. For instance, one can easily distinguish by electron microscopy the spherical particles and agglomerates from propylene pyrolysis at 850 C from the catalytic coke in the form of typical tubular whiskers when propylene reacts on iron foil at 560C or from the carbon filaments formed in a steam cracker coil [91. The coke formed in pyrolysis itself can be differentiated further into seven types of macro-structures. These structures change when the process conditions are changed or when additives are introduced into the pyrolysis system [lo].Shifting location of coke on a bifunctional catalyst In the case of, e.g., a bunction /na reforming catalyst, the coke on the metal surface can be quite different from that on the alumina surface. This can be seen easily from temperature-programmed combustion (TPC) of coke on the catalyst 1113, as shown in Fig. 3. The first COz peak is due to the combustion of coke on the metal, while the second higher- temperature peak results from the combustion of the coke on the alumina surface. If a stream of 5% O2 in He is used instead of air for the TPC, the oxygen consumed during TPC can be monitored simultaneously using a GC or an oxygen analyzer. Very often the two COZ peaks may overlap.Nevertheless, TPC gives a characteristic fingerprint or spectrum of the nature of the coke formed on different catalysts, or on the same catalyst but under different conditions.CO2 from coke on alumina 200
LOO
600
TI'C)
Fig. 3. Evolution of CO, during temperature-programmed combustion of coke on a Pt/Al,O,reforming catalyst [ 11
I.
Typical commercial reforming catalysts such as Pt/alumina or Pt- Re/alumina have -2OOmg-l of total (BET) surface area. Of this, only 2-4 m2 g-l is the Pt or Pt + Re metal surface, the remainder being the alumina surface. Coke on the metal surface is formed by hydrogenolysis,while coke on the alumina is formed predominantly from acid-catalyzed carbenium ion reactions. Under typical reforming process conditions of 480-510 C, lo-30 bar pressure and Hz/hydrocarbons molar ratio of 4-7,the catalyst remains active enough even with 6-8 wt.% of coke on it, provided this coke is mostly on the alumina surface. If a sizable part of this coke is inadvertently deposited on the noble metal surface, the catalyst will be deactivated too much and regeneration to burn off this coke becomes unavoidable. Pretreatments of the reforming catalyst, such as sulfiding and/or chloriding, special start-up procedures, etc., all usually aim to minimize the hydrogenolytic coke on the metal surface [12-141. 1 z 3 4 Tim(h) Fig. 4. Coke deposition (C,) on 0.6% R/Al,Os reforming catalyst at 1 bar and 7 bars pressure,with hydrogen/hydrocarbon molar ratio (y) 2. [141. 213
;I
Ag
II
II
I
11
I
bar j/ 1 2 3 tlhrl
I
I
I
I
I
1 _____-.-- 200 400 600
T'C
Fig. 5. Temperature-programmed combustion of coke on the reforming catalyst after the coking experiments of Fig. 4; inset: simultaneous recording of the weight changes of the catalyst;from [14].
The remarkable differences in the nature and location of coke on catalyst, depending on the way this coke is deposited, can be demonstrated as follows: Fig. 4 shows the deposition of coke on a 0.6% Pt/alumina reforming catalyst (CK 306 of Akzo/Ketjen) from n-hexane at 500 C, Hz/n-C, molar ratio of 2, and total pressures of 1 bar and 7 bar, studied in a Sartorius high-pressure balance under differential reaction conditions (conversion 10%). After the first hour, the conversion does not change with increasing coke deposition 1141. The TPC of coke formed at 1 bar and at 7 bars and the corresponding weight changes of the catalyst (hanging from one arm of the balance) are shown in Fig. 5. Under TPC conditions, the coke on the Pt surface burns easily at a lower temperature, since Pt is a powerful combustion catalyst. The coke formed at 1 bar exhibits a prominent first peak (coke on Pt metal) and a minor second peak (coke on alumina). At 7 bars pressure, the coking is much less but, more significantly, there is now less coke on the Pt surface, and most of the coke is now on the alumina surface.
Thus, the nature of the coke (hydrogenolytic or carbenium-ion-derived type) and hence its location on the catalyst surface can change significantly when the pressure in catalytic reforming is changed. Similar changes are also produced by temperature and HJhydrocarbon ratio, and by pretreatments,such as sulfiding, employed in the process [ 13-141. To ignore the molecular structure of coke and try to model the kinetics of deactivation of catalyst systems, based only on the weight of coke on catalyst, may be erroneous and misleading.Dependence of coke formation on the type of hydrocarbon The reactant hydrocarbon has a decisive influence on both the rate of coke laydown and the maximum amount of coke that can be deposited on a 214
TABLE 2
InBuence of the reactant hydrocarbon on the rate of coking and the maximum amount of coke which can be deposited on a silica-ahnnina cracking catalysta Hydrocarbon Maximum coke Time to reach max formed coke (pore vol=O) (wt.%) (nW styrene 10 60 butadiene 16 150 isobutene 40 500 kerosene 50 14,000 Data from [15]. catalyst. This was shown in 1968 by Panchenkov et al. [El, who measured the change in pore volume during coking of a silica-alumina cracking catalyst. When the maximum coking limit was reached, the pore volume became almost zero. Unsaturated hydrocarbons such as styrene or butadiene have a much higher rate of coking as compared to kerosene (Table 2). With styrene, the accessible pore volume is eliminated already at 10 wt.% coke,while with kerosene this happens only at 50 wt.%. This is possible only if the coke from styrene is deposited at the pore mouth, cutting off the internal volume of the pores- a typical pore-mouth plugging (see Fig. 2). With a slower main reaction, the coking reaction is also slower, and the pores are filled with coke only gradually. An important guideline thus emerges: for effective use of a catalyst, ensure a slow rate of coke laydown.In steam reforming of hydcbons also, the rate of coking is strongly dependent on the type of the hydrocarbon, as has been shown by Rostrup- Nielsen 121.In petroleum refining processes, hydrocarbons with molecular struc- tures similar to those of cyclopentadiene, indene, phenanthrene, indan and fluorene are known to be notorious coke makers: coking with these is an order of magnitude higher than with other hydbons
1161. Presumably
such molecular structures can be converted more easily to polynuclear aromatic precursors of coke.
Invisible coke on catalysts Partial oxidations and oxidative dehydrogenations of hydrocarbons constitute an important group of industrial catalytic processes. Oxides of metals with variable valency are often the preferred catalyst here. Coke is formed on the catalysts in these processes, but under the prevailing oxidative conditions this coke is rapidly gasified or burned to carbon dioxide and water.
Because of such rapid coke gasification, the equilibrium coke level on the catalyst will be rather low. If the coke gasification slows down, coke can accumulate on the catalyst with consequent catalyst deactivation. In the 215 oxidative dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene to styrene over Lao,-promoted catalysts, Kim and Weller El73 have recently reported that the coke deposited during the reaction does not result in deactivation or loss in surface area.
Alkali and alkaline-earth metals or their oxides are the best-known catalyst promoters added to gasify the coke catalytically. The wide-spread use of alkali promotion in heterogeneous catalysis has been reviewed by Mross [lSl. Of course, alkali promotion has strong influences also on the activity and selectivity of many catalytic reactions, apart from catalyzing the coke gasification. A detailed mechanism for alkali-gasification of carbon has been proposed by Hiittinger [191.Beneficial coke Only a few examples will be cited here to show that coke formation can sometimes play a positive or beneficial role in heterogeneous catalysis. The need to have a little controlled coking during start-up to avoid excessive hydrogenolysis and a run-away exothermic reaction in catalytic reforming was mentioned earlier. Such controlled low coking is essential to attain the optimum stability and stabilized activity for the catalyst in many hydrocar- bon processes.In the case of molecular-sieve catalysts, three types of shape selectivity are well known: reactant selectivity, product selectivity and transition-state selectivity. Kaeding et al. 1201 have shown that in the alkylation of toluene with methanol to form xylenes on ZSM-5 type catalysts, the selectivity to p-xylene can be increased to 92% from the thermodynamic equilibrium value of 23% if the pore structure of the catalyst is fine-tuned with a carefully laid down carbonaceous polymeric layer.Another example of the subtle and beneficial effects of carbon in a catalyst is the recent work on supported silver catalysts by Meima et al. [21,221. Traces of carbon IeR from the preparation technique have a very beneficial influence on the chemisorption of oxygen on the silver catalyst. The catalytic activity for CO oxidation was found to depend not on the silver metal surface in the catalyst, but on the number of defects and the morphology of the silver particles. These defects in the crystal structure are stabilized by carbonaceous impurities, leading to a much greater oxygen transport at the surface. The authors propose that carbonaceous impurities can enhance the transparency of the silver surface for oxygen atoms. If this carbon is removed by a mild oxidation (without any sir&ring occurring), the capacity for oxygen chemisorption drops, with a corresponding drop in the catalytic activity for CO oxidation as well.There is at least one case in which coke on catalyst has been identified as the active site for catalysis. In the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethylben- zene to styrene on catalysts such as SiOz, A1203, Si02-A1203, SiO,-MgO, P-Si02, P-Si02-A&O3 and SiOz-ZrOz, Echigoya and coworkers 1231 found 216 the catalytic activity to increase with time on stream for several hours before reaching a stable value. Suspecting that coke formation was responsible for this increase in activity, the catalysts were pre-coked by cumene cracking. On these coked catalysts, the high stabilized activity for ethyl-benzene conver- sion was immediately obtained. From this result, the authors conclude that the coke on the acid catalyst is the active site for oxidative dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene.Carbonaceous species on catalysts as reactive intermediates Surface science studies by Somojai and coworkers [24,253 in the 1970s led to the surprising conclusion that a carbonaceous overlayer was actually the active layer or zone in many hydrocarbon reactions on metal catalysts.Work on Fischer-Tropsch synthesis has now led to a general consensus [ 26-301: in F-T synthesis, carbidic carbon is the reactive intermediate, while graphitic carbon can deactivate the catalyst. In the case of NV&-alumina catalyst for steam reforming of methane, as discussed earlier, catalyst deactivation stems not from the carbon on the catalyst, but from the carbon in the bulk of the nickel.For synthesis of aromatics from a variety of starting materials such as pa&tins, olefins, alcohols, the liquid mixture resulting from Fischer-Tropsch synthesis, biomass, etc., a reactive carbonaceous pool has been suggested
1311: the desired products are obtained by typical hydrogen-transfer reac-
tions on zeolites. In the conversion of methanol to gasoline on ZSM 5-type catalysts, Dessau 1321 has proposed a similar carbon pool of Cz, Cs, Cd,cg, . . . species on the catalyst surface. The higher species are created by repeated methyl insertions; cracking of the heavier species produces all the lower olefins.
Under the conditions of a catalytic reaction, the surface of a catalyst will be covered to a greater or lesser extent with reactive species or in- termediates, the relative amounts of which in hydrocarbon reactions will be regulated by hydrogen 133-361. In the case of hydrocarbons, the formation of various carbonaceous intermediates on a catalyst surface will involve the gradual dissociation of the reacting hydrocarbon species. In the case of n-hexane as the reactant, Zimmer et al. 1361 showed that the relative concentration of aromatics on the one hand and of isomers and methyl- cyclopentane on the other, corresponds to their thermodynamic equilibrium,provided the effective surface hydrogen pressure governing this ratio is higher than that measured in the gas phase. The existence of such an equilibrium in a flow-through system indicates the establishment of an equilibrium on the molecular level itself on the catalyst surface. Two surface species, CsHiBPt(ads) and C,H,,_&(ads) were assumed to be in equili- brium and to be responsible for isomerization plus C,-cyclization and aromatization respectively. With increasing hydrogen pressure, the rates of formation of all the products exhibit a maximum at some intermediate 217 HYnAOGEN BACANCE
-8H
-8H
l
2H
_<I1
OPTIMUM HYDROGEN PRESSURE
Fig. 6. The order of optimum hydrogen pressure and hydrogen balance, with proposed carbonaceous intermediates on the catalyst surface, for various hydrocarbon reactions; from
1341.
pressure. The order of maxima corresponds to the degree of dissociation of the surface intermediate for the given reaction [35,361. The order of optimum hydrogen partial pressures, hydrogen balance and the proposed carbonaceous surface intermediates for the various hydrocarbon reactions are shown in Fig. 6.Carbonaceous surface species with varying amounts of hydrogen and with or without oxygen have also been reported on a variety of catalysts for several technologically important reactions, such as methanation, methanol synthesis, steam reforming of hydrocarbons, Fischer-Tropsch synthesis,water-gas shift reaction, and the Mobil methanol-to-gasoline process. Menon et al. 1371 have pointed out that these surface species need not be mutually exclusive; instead, they may be in a state of equilibrium as shown in Fig. 7. Is FT Synthesis Methanation Steam Methanol Decomposition reforming synthesis of formic acid 0" ZnO OP Pd
CO +
"Hq CO + "Hq CHq + Hz0 CO + 2Hz
HCOOH
1
CHOH
co + Hz0 *co2
+ H2
Mobil
MTG
Water-gas shift reaction Tail-end alkylation used as used as of toluene reducing shift with metnanol couple reaction Fig. 7. Carbonaceous surface species in equilibrium, possibly common for several major catalytic processes. The arrows indicate the surface species which have been previously proposed or identified by various investigators for the processes concerned [381. 218 the CHO intermediate on the surface in an enolic form or a ketonic form? Is the value of y in these species 1, 2 or 3? Does the attachment of hydrogen to the carbon occur before or after the dissociation of CO into C and 0 on the surface in the case of Fischer-Tropsch and methanol synthesis, methanation and other CO + nHz reactions? These questions all remain very relevant. It must be strongly emphasized that the answers to these questions need not be unequivocal, since they will depend very much on the nature of the catalyst used, the concentration of the reactants, and other experimental conditions.The fad that a particular surface species in the equilibrium of Fig. 7 is not detected in a specific investigation can have at least two causes 1381: (a) its concentration is below the level of detection of the analytical technique used;and (b) it is readily converted into another atuly-detected form during the experimental manipulation (e.g., raising the temperature in temperature- programmed desorption or reaction, or shifting the equilibrium during reactive scavenging of a particular species from the catalyst surface).Characterization of coke with AES/SIMS Quantitative determination of hydrogen in coke and hence a better characterization of coke on metal catalyst surfaces have recently been achieved by Niemverdet and van Langeveld 1391. By an elegant combination of Auger electron spectroscopy (ARS) and secondary ion mass spectrometry
(SIMS),
these authors distinguished four types of car- bonaceous layers on metal surfaces. AES indicates whether the carbon can be categorized as molecular/carbidic or amorphous/graphitic. Combination with data on hydrogen content and degree of polymerization from SIMS enabled further conclusions to be made on the state of the carbon deposits formed on foils of Rh, Ir and Pt.
The carbonaceous deposit formed on Rh at 252 C is a mixture of mainly carbidic carbon and some hydrocarbon fragments, while that formed at 502 C has a low hydrogen content and low degree of graphitization and hence contains mostly hydrogen-depleted amorphous and carbidic carbon. Carbon deposit on Pt at 502 C is largely graphitic in nature; on Ir at the same temperature, it is characterized by a lower degree of aphitization and a higher hydrogen content and hence has a more amorphous character than that on Pt. The deposits on Pt and Ir at 252 C are very similar and their hydrogen content is practically the same; nevertheless there is more grapbitic carbon on Pt. Such experimental evidence for the simultaneous existence of different carbonaceous species with varying hydrogen contents on metal catalyst surfaces broadly supports the generalization proposed in Fig. 6. Furthermore the deposits formed on Rh contain significantly less hydrogen than those on Pt and Ir. This is in agreement with the relatively high activity of Rh for breaking C-H bonds, as reported by Merta and Ponec
1401. For Ir and Pt substrates, the degree of polymerization increases with
increasing temperature, while for Rb it remains at a low level. Pt. is more 219 sensitive than Ir for graphite formation, which is in agreement with work on alumina-supported Pt and Ir catalysts by Carter et al. [411.The AElS/SIMS data show that the tendency of the substrate metals to promote graphitization decreases in the order Pt, Ir, Rh, which is indeed the order of increasing hydrogenolysis activity of these metals 1421. Such quantitative comparisons of the hydrogen content and nature of the car- bonaceous overlayer or deposit on catalyst surfaces may thus provide a direct rationalization for the intrinsic catalytic activity and the actual performance of catalysts.Classification of coking reactions The above observations on coke formed on catalysts lead to the conclusion that catalytic reactions can be broadly classified into coke- insensitive and coke-sensitive reactions, somewhat analogous to Boudarts classification 1431 of catalytic reactions into structure-insensitive or facile and structure-sensitive or demanding ones.Coke-insensitive reactions are encountered whenever there is hydrogen under pressure in the reactant system and a strong hydrogenation com- ponent in the catalyst, e.g. catalytic reforming, hydrotreating, hydrocracking,steam reforming, methanol synthesis, Fischer-Tropsch synthesis. In all these cases, the hydrogen pool on the catalyst surface and the strong hydrogenation activity of the catalyst keep the surface relatively clean and active even when appreciable quantities of coke are already present on the surface. This is because the carbonaceous species on the surface is still reactive enough to be considered as an intermediate. In these cases, the type and location of coke are far more important than the total quantity of coke on the catalyst.In contrast to the above are the coke-sensitive reactions, in which the coke is deposited directly on the active sites on the catalyst. This coke is unreactive (because there is no hydrogen, or no sufficiently high partial pressure of hydrogen, or a strongly hydrogenating catalyst function in the system) and can be compared to typical catalyst poisoning, in which the activity falls rapidly with increasing quantity of coke on the catalyst.Well-known examples for this are catalytic cracking and hydrogenolysis,where <l wt.% coke is enough to deactivate the catalyst almost completely.The coke formed in coke-sensitive reactions is indeed undesirable or harmful. The coke resulting from relatively coke-insensitive reactions may prove to be harmless, or almost invisible due to its continuous gasification to CO2 and HzO. It can also be termed beneficial when it enhances selectivity or serves as a reactive carbonaceous overlayer on the catalyst surface, or may be the actual catalytic site itself on the surface.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Provide a detailed explanation of the Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism for catalytic dehydrogenation reactions, describing its four main steps and analyzing the ongoing debate regarding which step is considered rate-limiting. Additionally, discuss why this mechanism remains a topic of scientific interest and controversy despite nearly a century of study.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 