I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Dehydrogenation of I -Butene into Butadiene. Kinetics, Catalyst Coking, and Reactor Design Francis J. Dumez and Gilbert F. Froment' Laboratoriurn voor Petrochernische Techniek.Rijksuniversiteit, Gent, Belgium The kinetics of 1-butene dehydrogenation over a Cr203-AI203 catalyst between 490 and 600 O
C
were deter- mined in a differential reactor. The discrimination between rival Langmuir-Hinshelwood models was based on a sequentially designed experimental program. The kinetics of coking from butene and butadiene and the deactivation functions for coking and for the main reaction were determined with a thermobalance. The equa- tions derived from differential reactor results gave excellent predictions of the performance of an experimental integral reactor. The effect of internal transport limitation was investigated.
An industrial reactor was simulated and optimized.
I. Introduction
An important fraction of the world butadiene production is obtained by dehydrogenation of n-butane or n-butene.
This reaction is accompanied by side reactions leading to carbonaceous deposits which rapidly deactivate the cata- lyst. The coking tendency may be limited up to a certain extent either by diluting the feed with steam or by operat- ing under reduced pressure. The second solution has been favored. The butadiene production using vacuum processes amounted to 700000 T in 1971 (Hydrocarbon Process.,1971). With vacuum processes operating with butene as feed, the on-stream time is limited to 7-15 min, after which regeneration of the catalyst by burning off the coke is re- quired. With such cycle times the heat given off by the re- generation compensates for the heat requirements of the adiabatic dehydrogenation (Hornaday et al., 1961; Thomas,1970).
Vacuum processes are based upon Crz03-Al203 cata- lysts. Fundamental properties of such catalysts were stud- ied by Burwell et al. (1969), Poole and MacIver (19671, Marcilly and Delmon (1972), Masson and Delmon (1972), Traynard et al. (1971, 1973). These authors found that the catalytic activity was represented by surface Cr3+ and 0'- ions which are incompletely coordinated; ions of y-CrzO3-
A1203
solid solutions were found to be the most active.
Aspects of the kinetics of butene dehydrogenation on such catalysts were investigated by Forni et al. (1969), Happel et al. (1966), and Timoshenko and Buyanov (1972).
Although the surface reaction was generally found to be rate determining, there is little more agreement between the results. Further, none of these studies was carried out with particle sizes used in industrial operation. So far, no quantitative treatment of the deactivation of the catalyst by coke deposition has been published. Yet, without such information no rigorous optimization of industrial opera- tion is possible.
This paper reports on a detailed study of the kinetics of the dehydrogenation, of the coke deposition, and of the as- sociated catalyst decay. The effect of internal transport limitations is investigated. Industrial operation is simulat- ed and optimized. 1 1 .
Kinetics of the Main Reaction
11.1. Experimental Procedure and Range of Operat-
ing Variables. The catalyst used in this investigation was a Cr203-Al203 catalyst containing 20 wt % Crz03 and hav- ing a surface area of 57 m2/g. Experimental checks on the absence of partial pressure and temperature gradients in the film surrounding the particle and of temperature gradi- ents inside the particle were performed. Also, preliminary runs were carried out in order to determine the catalyst particle size which permits neglecting internal transport limitation.
The kinetics of butene dehydrogenation were deter- mined in a quartz tube inserted in an electrical furnace.
The catalyst particles, diluted with quartz particles, were supported by a stainless steel gauze. The temperature was controlled by two thermocouples, one in the center of the catalyst section and one near the wall.
The feed stream was calibrated and dried in the classical way, The outlet gases were analyzed by gas chromatogra- phy on a 20% propylene carbonate/chromosorb column.
Experiments were performed at 4 temperatures: 490, 525,560, and 600 "C. The butene pressure ranged from 0.02 to
0.27 atm, the hydrogen pressure from 0 to 0.10 atm, and the
butadiene pressure from 0 to 0.10 atm. Although only 1- butene was fed, the outlet gases always contained a mixture of 1-butene, cis-2-butene, and trans-2-butene close to the equilibrium composition. Therefore, the dehydrogenation equilibrium could be referred to butene equilibrium mix- tures. In all these experiments, the conversion was kept below 2% by adjusting the amount of catalyst and the gas flow rates. Therefore, the reactor was considered to be dif- ferential.
Due to coke deposition the dehydrogenation rate was found to decrease with time. To determine the rate of the main reaction in the absence of coke required extrapolation to zero time. Since the first analysis was taken after 2 min,while a run extended to 30 min, the extrapolation was no problem.
11.2. Kinetic Analysis. Five possible reaction schemes,
shown in Table I, were derived for the main reaction. For each of these mechanisms several rate equations may be derived, depending upon the postulated rate-determining step. Fifteen possible rate equations were retained. They are listed in Table 11.
The experimental program was designed to discriminate in an optimal way between the rival models. Sequential procedures for optimal discrimination have been intro- duced by Box and Hill (1967) and by Hunter and Reiner (1965). The methods have been applied to experimental data, but only a posteriori, for illustrative purposes (Fro- ment and Mezaki, 1970). The present work is probably the first in which the experiments were actually and exclusive- ly designed on the basis of a sequential discrimination pro- Ind. Eng. Chem., Process Des. Dev., Vol. 15, No. 2,1976 291 Table I. Reaction Schemes for Butene Dehydrogenation (a) Atomic Dehydrogenation; Surface Recombination of Hydrogen (1)
B + L = B L
(a1 1 ( z j  B L + L - M L + H L (a2) (3) M L + L t  D L + H L (a3) (4j D L = D + L (a4j
( 5 )  2HL+ H,L + L
(6) H,L + H, + L
(where B = n-butene; D = butadiene; H, = hydrogen; M = an intermediate complex) (b) Atomic Dehydrogenation; Gas Phase Recombination of (1) B + L t
BL
( b l )
(2) B L + L + M L + H L
(b2) (3) M L + L t M L + H L (b3) (4) D L t  D + L (b4)
( 5 )  2HL + H, + 2L
(1)
B + L = B L
( c l )
(2) BL + L + DL + H,L
(c2)
(3) D L + D + L
(c3)
(4) H,L + H, + L
(d) Atomic Dehydrogenation; Intermediate Complex with Short Lifetime Surface Recombination of Hydrogen
(1) B + L + B L
( d l ) ( 2 )  BL + 2L t
DL + 2HL
(d2)
(3) D L + D + L
(4) 2HL= H,L + L
( 5 )  H,L + H, + L
Hydrogen (c) Molecular Dehydrogenation (e) Atomic Dehydrogenation; Intermediate Complex with Short Lifetime; Gas Phase Hydrogen Recombination (1) B + L t B L (el)
( 2 )  BL + 2L+ DL + 2HL
(e2)
(3) D L = D + L
(4) 2HL t
H, + 2L
cedure. The operating conditions for an experiment were selected on the basis of the design criterion. Then the ex- periment was carried out, the parameters of the models were estimated, and the current state of adequacy of the rival models was tested. With this information the next ex- periment was designed and so on, until the discrimination was achieved. Eventually, some further experiments were carried out to improve the significance of the parameters of the retained model(s).
The sequential choice of experimental conditions for op- timal discrimination between the rival models was based upon the following design criterion m m
D
= lPHLo - PH,q (1) 1=1, = 1 If' where PH,O represents the estimated value of the reaction rate according to model i, and D is the divergence between the predicted rates. The double summation ensures that each model is taken in turn as a reference. Given n - 1 ex- periments the nth experiment was performed in the differ- ential reactor at those values of p
,
p
,
and p which max- imized D.
A grid is selected for possible combinations of p
,
p
,
and p within the operability region. From previ- ous experience on constructed examples the criterion (1) was shown to lead to the same experiments as the Box-Hill criterion that accounts for the variances.
The state of model adequacy was tested by means of a criterion proposed by Hosten and Froment (to be pub- lished). The underlying idea is that the minimum sum of squares of residuals divided by the appropriate number of degrees of freedom is an unbiased estimate of the experi- mental error variance for the correct mathematical model only. For all other models this quantity is biased due to a lack of fit of the model. The criterion for adequacy there- fore consists in testing the homogeneity of the estimates of the experimental error variance obtained from each of the rival models. This is done by means of Bartlett's x2 test (Bartlett, 1937). The details of the procedure, the designed operating conditions, and the evolution of the discrimina- tion will be reported elsewhere (Dumez et al., to be pub- lished). Suffice it to mention that at 525 "C, e.g., a total of 14 experiments, 7 of which were preliminary, i.e., required to start the sequential design, allowed discarding all the models except a2, b2, c2, d2, and e2, all corresponding to surface reaction on dual sites as rate-determining step. The differences PH,O -
P
H
,
O
between these models were smaller than the experimental error. The models a2, b2, and d2 were eliminated because they contained at least one pa- rameter that was not significantly different from zero at the 95% confidence level. Model c2, corresponding to mo- lecular dehydrogenation and the surface reaction on dual sites as rate determining step, led to a fit which was slightly superior to that of e2 and was finally retained. The same conclusion was reached at 490,560, and 600 "C.
It should be pointed out here how efficient sequential design procedures for model discrimination are. A classical experimental program, less conscious of the ultimate goal,would no doubt have involved a much more extensive ex- perimental program.
The parameters of model c2 were estimated by minimiz- ing for all the data 1 = 1, , N at the four temperature levels.
This involves nonlinear regression. Indeed, the expression for r  0 according to model c2 is in which the adsorption equilibrium constants KB,
KH,
and
K D
are related to the equilibrium constants of the steps of the reaction in the following way (4) Statistical tests indicated that the adsorption equilibrium constants were not significantly temperature dependent.
The rate coefficient
H
O
obeyed the Arrhenius temperature depend en c e k H o  = AH' exp(-EH/RT) ( 5 ) AH' = AH" exp(EH/RT,) (6) with T, the average temperature, facilitated the estima- tion. The values of the parameters and their standard de- viations are given in Table 111. The Arrhenius plot for
H
O
is given in Figure 1. The dots represent the parameter values obtained from a treatment of the data per tempera- ture.
Reparameterization according to 1 1 1 .
Kinetics of Coking The kinetics of coking and the deactivation functions for coking and for the main reaction were determined by means of a Cahn RH thermobalance. The catalyst was placed in a stainless steel basket suspended at one balance arm. The temperature was measured in two positions by thermocouples placed just below the basket and between the basket and the quartz tube surrounding it.
The temperature in the coking experiments ranged from 480 to 630 "C, the butene pressure from 0.02 to 0.25 atm,and the butadiene pressure from 0.02 to 0.15 atm. Individ- 292 Ind. Eng. Chem., Process Des. Dev., Vol. 15.
No. 2, 1976 Table 11. Rate Equations for Butene Dehydrogenation 'Ha \
I
Table 111. Kinetic Coefficients and Adsorption Constants of Butene Dehydrogenation Approx.
Parameter Value std dev
AHO(T, = 815.36 K )
0.2697
0.0298
E H
2 9236 732
KB
1.727
0.342
KH
3.593
0.641
KD
38.028
6.165
and butadiene, while hydrogen exerted an inhibiting effect.
An example of the coke content of the catalyst as a func- tion of time is given in Figure 2. Since the thermobalance is a differential reactor, operating at point values of the par- tial pressures and the temperature, the decrease in the rate of coking observed with increasing coke content reflects the deactivating effect of coke. The rate equation for coke for- mation therefore has to include a deactivation function,multiplying the rate in the absence of coke.
(7) rco is the initial coking rate, a function of the partial pres- sures and temperature which reduces to a constant for a given experiment in the thermobalance. Several expres- sions were tried for cpc (Froment and Bischoff, 1961). dCc - = rcO pc dt ual components as well as mixtures of butene and butadi- were fed. The hydrogen pressure range was 0-0.15 atm.
Coke deposition on the basket itself was always negligible.
The deactivation function for coking was determined from the experimental coke vs. time curves as described below. Coke was shown to be deposited from both butene ene, butene and hydrogen, and butadiene and hydrogen' Ind. Eng. Chem., Process Des. Dev., Vol. 15, No. 2,1976 293 + model t 2 o model e 2 t 2  calc 115 120 125 130 Figure 1. Arrhenius diagram of k"O. b l v c 0 1 2 1
Figure 2. C, vs. t measured on the thermobalance. pc = exp(-aC,) p . 2 = 1 - ac,p ,= (1 - aC,)2 4 7 ,= 1/(1
+ C
Y
C
,)
$ 0 ,= 1/(1
+ C
Y
C
,) 2
Note that the deactivation function is expressed in terms of the carbon content of the catalyst, not in terms of time as has been done frequently; indeed, time is not the true vari- able into eq 7 and integration with respect to time yields respectively (9) a and rCo were determined by fitting of the experimental data by means of a least-squares criterion.
For the majority of the 50 experiments pc = exp(-aC,) turned out to give the best fit. This, by the way, agrees with the results of Depauw and Froment (1975) obtained with a completely different system. An explanation based upon a pore blocking mechanism has been attempted (Dumez and Froment, to be published). The parameter a was found to be identical for coking from either butene or butadiene and independent of the operating variables, as can be seen from the partial correlation coefficients between a and T,p
,
p
,
and p
,
respectively, shown in Table IV. This table also contains the calculated t values for the zero hypothesis for the partial correlation coefficients. The t values do not exceed the tabulated value of 2.03 for the 95% probability level.
The determination of the complete rate equation for coke deposition required the simultaneous treatment of all experiments, so that p
,
p  ,p  ,and T were varied. The exponential deactivation function was substituted into the rate equation for coking. After integration of the latter the parameters were determined by minimization of Several rate equations, either empirical or based on the Hougen-Watson concept, were tested. The best global fit was obtained with the following equation. with kCeo = Aceo exp(-EcB/RT) (12) kcDo = A o o exp(-EcD/RT) and KCH independent of temperature. The integrated equation used in the objective function (10) was Again the frequency factors Aceo and ACD' were modified as follows ACB' = ACB" exp(EcB/RTm) (14) ACD' = ACD" exp(EcD/RT,) to facilitate the parameter estimation.
The parameter values and their approximate standard deviation are given in Table V. An example of the fit ob- tained with this equation is shown in Figure 2.
The frequency factors Aceo and ACDO are easily calculat- ed from (14) Ace0 = 1.559 X lo8
A
O
= 5.108 x 105 Since the order with respect to butene,  C B ,and to butadi- ene, ncD, is smaller than 1,it has been attempted to derive an adequate mathematical model based on the Langmuir- Hinshelwood or Hougen-Watson concept.
The formation of what is called cokes proceeds over a se- quence of steps involving addition and/or dehydrogenation.
Let the rate-determining step in this sequence be repre- sented by IlBL + (nBB)L - IhBL for coking from butene, and by IlDL + (nDD)L - ZhDL for coking from butadiene. ZBL and ZDL are adsorbed lower intermediates in equilibrium with butene and buta- diene and IhBL and I h D L  higher intermediates. For pure addition ne and n D  would be unity, for pure dehydrogena- 294 Ind. Eng. Chem., Process Des. Dev., Vol. 15, No. 2, 1976 Table IV. Test of Partial Correlation Coefficients between CY and the Independent Variables p Value -0.1612 -0.0627 +0.3042 -0.0530 t Value
0.98
0.38
1.92
0.32
Table V. Kinetic Parameters for Coking Approx.
Parameter Value std dev
45.53
1.08
32800 7 58
0.2917
0.0209
0.743
0.029
1.3168
0.1158
0.853
0.023
1.695
0.076
21042 501 tion zero, whereas if both mechanisms would be involved in the rate-determining step ne and n D  would be between zero and one.
Neglecting possible reverse reactions the rate of coking may be written (15) The unmeasurable concentration of adsorbed species can be eliminated by accounting for the equilibria between bu- tene and butadiene and the lower intermediates, so that (15) becomes rc = k c B ' C r l B r ,  C i n p B ) I ,  -k k c D ' C I l n L  C i n o D ) L From (16) the concentration of free active sites C I may be eliminated in favor of bulk partial pressures by means of a balance on the total number of active sites. When the con- centrations of the adsorbed lower intermediates are ne- glected with respect to the concentrations of adsorbed bu- tene, butadiene, and hydrogen, CL is given by (17) with CtL the total number of active sites and CSL the num- ber of sites covered by coke. The coking rate becomes CtL -
CSL
C L  = 1
+ KBPB
+ K n P H  + K D P D (18) A deactivation function for the coking may now be defined kCH'KIieL PBnB+' f kCD'KIiDL pDnDtl (1
+ KBPR
+ K H P H
+ I  D P D )
by The problem with this function is that it contains the inac- cessible concentration of adsorbed higher intermediate.
There is no way out, here, except to resort to the empirical relation between coke and the deactivation derived from the experiments, qc = exp(-pCc). When this expression is substituted into (181, the resulting equation can be inte- grated with respect to time, since the partial pressures and temperature remain constant in the thermobalance experi- ments, to give where Table VI Values of the parameters of the Langmuir-Hinshelwood Model __ Approx.Parameter Value std dev
CY
39.67
1.724
AcB"(T,
= 822.8 K )
0.6049
0.0694
ECB
30873 1300 nCB o,
0.970
0.051
ACD
148.66
18.77
ECD
18117 7 84 nCD
1.767
0.034
n C B  = n B  + 1 n C D  = n D  + 1
KB,
K H ,
and K D have already been estimated (section 11.2).
The values of A c B  ,
ECB,
n C B ,  AcDO, ECD,ncD, and CY were estimated by nonlinear regression and are given in Table VI [AcBO and ACB' were also modified according to (14)].From the values of n c B  and ncD, it can be concluded that the rate-determining step for coking from butene would be dehydrogenation step
I  B L
+ L +
ZBL
+
H 2 L
The activation energy E C B  agrees remarkably well with that found for dehydrogenation of butene. The rate-deter- mining step for coking from butadiene would be IlDL + (0.75g)L - I h D L i.e. would mainly consist of addition. The value for ECD seems to support this conclusion.
The accuracy of the Langmuir-Hinshelwood model (18) is lower than that of model ( l l ) ,however. This is believed to result, partly at least, from the lower mathematical flexi- bility of eq 18 as compared to (11). In addition, the Lang- muir-Hinshelwood model is probably oversimplified. On the other hand and apart from kinetics, the approach seems to lead to some interesting conclusions as to the mechanisms of coking.
IV. Effect of Coke on the Rate of Dehydrogenation
The deactivation function for the dehydrogenation was also determined by means of the thermobalance, in the same way as done by Tackeuchi et al. (1966) and by Ozawa and Bischoff (1968), i.e., by measuring simultaneously the coke content and the composition of the exit gases as func- tions of time. To eliminate the effect of bypassing, the con- versions were all referred to the one first measured. It was checked that the ratio of the amounts of gas flowing through and around the basket remained constant and was not affected by the coke deposition: in a regeneration ex- periment the burning rate, determined from the weight loss measured by means of the balance, completely agreed with that calculated from the amount of CO and COS in the exit gases, for the whole duration of the experiment.
Figure 3 shows the relation between r H / r H n  = and the coke content, easily derived from the measurements r H / r H o = p vs. time and coke content vs. time. Although there is a certain spread on the data, no systematic trend with re- spect to the temperature or the partial pressures could be detected. The temperature ranged from 520 to 616 "C; the butene pressure from 0.036 to 0.16 atm.
Again, the best fit was obtained with an exponential function: VH = exp(-nC,). A value of 42.12 was calculated for a.
The agreement with the value found for the deactiva- Ind. Eng. Chem., Process Des. Dev., Vol. 15, No. 2,1976 295
.O1
.02 .03 04 .05 .06 Figure 3. Activity of the catalyst for dehydrogenation vs. coke content. tion parameter for the two coking reactions is remarkable.
It may be concluded that the main reaction and the coking reactions occur on the same sites.
The set of rate equations may now be written eration without prior investigation of the effect of the par- ticle size on the rate of the overall process consisting of re- action and internal transport.
The effect of transport phenomena inside the particle is generally expressed by means of the effectiveness factor,which has been related to the geometry of the catalyst, the effective diffusivity and the rate parameters of the reaction in a closed form only for single reactions and simple kinet- ics. Bischoff (1967) has proposed the use of a generalized modulus which allows handling any reaction rate equation along the lines developed for simple kinetics, but the meth- od requires the reaction rate to be expressed as a function of the concentration of one component only. In the case studied here the amounts of butene and butadiene involved in coking reactions were too important to be neglected with respect to those involved in the main reaction. Therefore,three continuity equations had to be taken into account for the gaseous components. The equations may be written, for quasi-steady state conditions, negligible external transport resistance and isothermal particles (23)
1.826 X loT
exp(-29236/RT) p - - exp(
-42.12CJ
(21) (22) (
K
rH = (1 + 1 8 7 2 7 + 3.593pH + 3 8 . 0 2 8   ) '
1.5588 x 10' eXp(-32860/RT)pO.
+ 5.108 X lo5 exp(-21042/RT)p.' rc = exp(-45.53Cc) (1 + 1.695 6)'
V. Experiments in a n  Integral Reactor
The equations derived from experiments in differential reactors were tested by a few experiments carried out in an integral reactor. In this reactor the catalyst bed was divid- ed into five sections, separated by metal gauze, to enable unloading the catalyst in well defined sections at the end of a run. The temperature was measured in each section by means of thermocouples. The exit gas compositions were measured as a function of time. The temperature varied during an experiment, because of deactivation of the cata- lyst. The catalyst particle size was the same as that used in the differential reactor.
The experimental results were compared with those ob- tained by numerical integration of the continuity equations for the different species, containing the rate equations (21)-(22). The temperature variations were also accounted for through (21)-(22).Figures 4 and 5 show the results for a typical run (PB =
0.22 atm, T = 595 "C). The agreement between calculated
and experimental results is excellent. It is worthwhile no- ticing that there is hardly any coke profile. There are two reasons for this: coke is formed from both butene and buta- diene, and hydrogen, a reaction product, inhibits the coke formation.
VI. Influence of Catalyst Particle Size
The rate equations (21)-(22) were determined with cata- lyst particles small enough to eliminate resistances to inter- nal transport. With experiments at low temperatures, the diameter was 0.7 mm, at higher temperatures 0.4 mm. In- dustrially the particle size is generally around 4 mm, to limit the pressure drop through the bed. Consequently, the results given above cannot be extrapolated to industrial op- with boundary conditions r = R e ; CB,k = CB; CH,k = CH; CD,k = CD (24) r H  is expressed in kmollkg of cat. h, rCB and rCD in kg coke/ kg of cat. h. Therefore, the conversion factors $CB and $CD are required. They are expressed in kg of coke per kg of bu- tene or butadiene involved in the coking and thus account for the loss of hydrogen associated with the coke formation.
DB, DH, and DD are the effective diffusivities for butene,hydrogen, and butadiene and are related to the molecular and the Knudsen diffusivities. For butene, e.g.
The molecular diffusivities were calculated from a weight- ed average of the binary diffusion resistances. The binary diffusion coefficients were estimated from the formula of Fuller et al. (Reid and Sherwood, 1958).
The calculation O f DB,k, DH,k, and DD,k requires informa- tion about the pore size. The catalyst studied had a bimod- al pore size distribution. Further, via electron microscopy,it was found that the catalyst consisted of crystallites of about 5 p separated by voids of about 1 p. Consequently,the maximum length of the micropores with average diam- eter 70 A cannot exceed 5 p. It is easily calculated that this is too short to develop any significant concentration gradi- ents. Therefore, only the macropores with a pore volume of
0.155 cm3/g and with average pore diameter of 10000 A
were considered in the evaluation of the Knudsen diffusivi- tY. 296 Ind. Eng. Chem., Process Des. Dev., Vol. 15, No. 2,1976 d rrp
CalC 03- .02 0 1
\ - - 10 20 30 40 50
I
(mm) Figure 4 .
Butadiene yield vs. time in the integral reactor.
Ct t 1 2 3 4 5 secllon Figure 5. Coke profile in the integral reactor.
The effective diffusivities were allowed to vary with the composition inside the particle. The only unknown param- eter left in the continuity equations is the tortuosity factor,
T. This factor was determined from a comparison between
the experimental rates at zero coke content, measured in a differential reactor, and the surface fluxes. The latter were calculated, using Fick's law, and for a given T ,  from the con- centration profiles obtained by numerical integration of eq
23. A value of 5 for T led to the best fit of the experimental
data. This is the generally accepted value for the tortuosity factor in catalysts of the type used in this work.
The calculated value for the effectiveness factor for de- hydrogenation was obtained by dividing the calculated hy- drogen flux at the particle surface by the true chemical re- action rate. Table VI1 compares these values with those ob- tained by dividing the experimental rate corresponding to a Table VII. Experimental and Calculated Effectiveness Factors with r = 5 R,, mm pe, atm
T, "C
(exptl) (calcd) (Bischoff) 77 77 77
2.3
0.2165
500
0.334
0.346
0.426
2.3
0.2159
550
0.187
0.229
0.282
2.3
0.2181
550
0.199
0.229
0.282
2.3
0.2492
599
0.140
0.135
0.185
0.6
0.2184
580
0.521
0.493
0.610
0.35
0.2038
595
0.808
0.621
0.723
given particle size, by the true chemical rate calculated from (21). Except for 0.35 mm the agreement is excellent.
The last column of this table contains the values obtained by means of the generalized modulus defined by Bischoff.
However, to do so, the coking reactions had to be neglected to be able to express the reaction rate as a function of the concentration of one component only. The diffusivities were supposed to remain constant in the whole particle.
The generalized modulus is calculated by means of the fol- lowing formula with L ,  the length of the pores and p the partial pressure of the component considered. The effectiveness factor is then evaluated from the graph given by Bischoff (1967). As can be seen from Table VII, the effectiveness factors deter- mined in this way are higher than the values obtained through integration of the continuity equations. However, Bischoff showed the integral to be exact for plates only.
When applied to spheres, the effectiveness factor may be overestimated, as pointed out by Aris (1957): the maximum deviation is observed around rj = 0.60 and amounts to 0.09.
The values obtained here are also about 10% higher than the calculated ones.
The Bischoff approach does not provide the concentra- tion profiles inside the particles so that the coking of the catalyst cannot be predicted. The advantage of the method lies in the simplicity of the calculations as compared to the integration of the continuity equations.
Figure 6 illustrates the partial pressure profiles inside the particle for zero deactivation and the coke profile after
0.25 h. The full lines correspond to the results obtained by
numerical integration using a Runge-Kutta-Gill routine.
The circles represent the partial pressures calculated by the collocation method (Villadsen, 1970), applied with con- stant effective diffusivities. Values based on the gas phase composition were used. The agreement is perfect and all in favor of the collocation method, which is much faster from the computational standpoint. The coke profile inside the particle is relatively flat and very similar to that measured in the integral reactor (Figure 5). If coke were formed from butene only a decreasing profile from the surface to the center of the particle would be observed; if coke would orig- inate from butadiene only, the profile would be ascending (Froment and Bischoff, 1961; Masamune and Smith, 1966).
The combination of both mechanisms and the inhibiting effect of hydrogen, whose concentration is maximum at the center, leads to the actual profile. The optimization of the process, which will be discussed in a later section, required a large number of numerical integrations of the reactor model, including the set of equations (23).
The integration of this set in each node of the grid selected for the fluid field equations was the time consuming step in the reactor simulation, even when collocation was resorted to. A dras- tic simplification was required here, aiming at eliminating the set of equations (23) by relating in an algebraic way the observed reaction rate to the conditions in the bulk of the Ind. Eng. Chem., Process Des. Dev., Vol. 15, No. 2, 1976 297
I
.10 ! 5 1 . 2 5 0 5
F
+ ;
I =  25
0 0 5 1 rlR, Figure 6. Dehydrogenation rates, partial pressure, and coke pro- files inside the catalyst particles. fluid. To do so, the effective reaction rate was calculated,for various temperatures and partial pressures in the bulk gas phase, as the surface flux derived from the profiles ob- tained by integration of the set (23). This effective rate was then plotted vs. the true reaction rate corresponding with the gas phase conditions selected. A unique curve was ob- tained, with very little spread (Dumez and Froment, to be published) and which could be expressed as rE = -0.0034 + dO.O0685(r + 0.0067) (27) For large values of rH and thus for small values of 7, the ef- fective rate becomes proportional to 6.
When both sides of (27) are divided by rH, the resulting equation behaves asymptotically like the relation between 7 and the Thiele modulus 4 for first-order irreversible reactions. Note that this simplification is only possible either in the absence of coke inside the particle or with uniform coke deposition.
The butene and butadiene profiles in the reactor calcu- lated in the way outlined above were in complete agree- ment with those obtained by the rigorous approach de- scribed in the next section.
VII. Simulation of an Industrial Reactor
Industrially the dehydrogenation is carried out around 600 "C in adiabatic reactors and under reduced pressure.
The bed is diluted with inert particles which provide a heat reservoir that reduces to a certain extent the effect of en- dothermicity of the reactor. Due to catalyst deactivation the run length is generally limited to about 15 min, after which regeneration is necessary. Before the regeneration is started the reactor has to be purged. The heat given off during the regeneration restores the original temperature level in the reactor. After purging the reactor, butene may be fed again and a new cycle starts. The characteristics of a typical reactor and the operating conditions are given in Table VIII.
The continuity and energy equations are as follows.
Fluid phase: Table VIII. Characteristics of an Industrial Reactor for Butene Dehydrogenation Length
0.8 m
Cross section 1 m' Catalyst and inert diameter
0.0046 m
Catalyst bulk density 400 kg of cat./m3 of diluted reactor Inert bulk density 900 kg of cat./m3 of diluted reactor Catalyst geometrical 274 mz/m3 of diluted surface area reactor Inert surface area 411 m*/m3 of diluted reactor Inlet total pressure
0.25 ata
Inlet butene pressure
0.25 ata
Molar flowrate Feed temperature
600 "C
Initial bed temperature
600 "C
15 kmol/m* cross section h where Ct = CB + CH + CD.
Nonsteady-state terms were considered here. However,since the interstitial flow velocity is 4 m/sec and the bed length is only 0.8 m the second terms in the left-hand sides of the equations can be neglected.
The product (uSC,) is kept under the differential in these equations to account for the important change in number of moles in the gas phase owing to the dehydroge- nation and to a certain extent to the coking. The right- hand side in (31) expresses the amount of heat exchanged between the gas and the solid particles, catalytic and inert.
Solid phase: The second term in the right-hand side of (32) and (33) ex- presses the amount of heat exchanged between the catalyst and the inert particles, by conduction and radiation. Inside the catalyst particles -++-2-- a2CD,k 2aCDk t aCD,k - - - PK (rH - - ) rCD (36) ar2 r ar DD at
DD
CCDMD
(37) Again the nonsteady-state tcrms in (34), (35), and (36) can be neglected. Notice further that no energy equation is written for the catalyst particle, for the reasons already mentioned. The boundary conditions are 298 Ind. Eng. Chem., Process Des. Dev., Vol. 15, No. 2,1976 r = O The particle equations were solved by means of collocation,the continuity equations for the fluid phase by means of a Runge-Kutta-Merson routine, and the energy equations in a semianalytical manner. The heat transfer coefficients were calculated from the j H  correlation (Handley and Heggs, 1968). The results of one rigorous computation are shown in Figures 7, 8,and 9. In Figure 7 the temperature is seen to drop rapidly under the initial value, due to the en- dothermic nature of the reaction. A temperature wave trav- els rapidly through the reactor as the reaction gradually ex- tends to increasing depths. In the presence of coking no true steady state is reached, however; the temperature pro- file is slowly translated upward, because of the decrease in reaction rate due to the catalyst deactivation. The corre- sponding coke profiles are shown in Figure 8. The profile is decreasing, mainly because of the higher temperature at the inlet and of the inhibition of the coke formation due to the hydrogen near the outlet. Figure 9 illustrates the buta- diene flow rate at the outlet as a function of time. The rapid initial decrease corresponds to the initial tempera- ture drop.
Beyond this initial period, the decrease in production is much slower. The catalyst is deactivated by the coke depo- sition, but as the dehydrogenation rate is lowered the bed temperature slowly rises, thus favoring again the butadiene production.
VIII. Process Optimization
As mentioned already in section VI, the large number of simulations involved in the optimization of the process ne- cessitated the simplification of the system of equations 28-37 into the set (28-33), (37), and (27). This eliminated the integration of the particle equations in each node of the grid used in the integration of the fluid field equations.
Further, to permit the simulation of nonisobaric situations arising with high flow rates, the Leva pressure drop equa- tion was added to the model (Leva, 1959).
Various aspects of the process were optimized: the con- version and selectivity, by the choice of reactor bed depth,flow rate and operating pressure; the dilution with inert material and the optimal on stream time (Dumez, 1975).
Only the last aspect will be dealt with here.
The adiabatic reactor considered here has a bed depth of
0.80 m, a cross-sectional area of 1
m2,and contains 800 kg of catalyst, undiluted. The initial catalyst temperature was taken to be uniform and equal to the inlet temperature. In industrial operation the initial temperature is not entirely uniform after regeneration and evacuation. It follows from Figure 7, however, that the temperature profile is com- pletely translated through the bed after 5 min so that the following calculations and results are believed to be suffi- ciently representative, certainly for the longer dehydroge- nation periods of the order of 45 min. The butadiene yield,averaged over one complete cycle (including dehydrogena- tion, purge, regeneration and evacuation) is given by the following formula 8 70
860.
850- i
I
1 840-
I
830 - 0 - *
OM
040 060 zlm) Figure 7. Temperature profiles in the reactor. t f  + t , The yield, I ,  is maximized by the optimal choice of the on stream time tf. But t ,  is a complex function of tf, through the coke content of the catalyst. The following expression was chosen for t ,t ,= t ,  + t ,  + A@,(39) with t ,  the purge time and t ,  the evacuation time, both equal to 2 min in industrial operation.
The linear relation between the regeneration time and the average coke content of the catalyst is a reasonable ap- proximation of the true relation: the rate of oxidation of coke is proportional to the coke content and decreases as the regeneration proceeds, but this is nearly compensated by the temperature rise of the bed. A value of 0.05 h/% coke was chosen for A.
In Figure 10, the yield I and the average coke content are plotted vs. t,, the total cycle time for a reactor operating at 600 "C, with inlet pressure of 0.30 ata and inlet flowrate of
20.4 kmol/m* h butene. I has a maximum for t ,  = 1.1 h.
The corresponding average coke content of the catalyst amounts to 3.7%. This is much more than the content re- quired to reheat the catalyst bed to the inlet gas tempera- ture.
To avoid excessive temperatures in the reactor after re- generation, the inlet temperature of the regeneration gas would probably have to be monitored, for instance by ad- mixing cold gas to the preheated stream. In industrial oper- ation the dehydrogenation period is interrupted when the amount of coke deposited is sufficient to provide, during the regeneration, the heat compensating the heat lost dur- ing the on stream period (Hydrocarbon Process., 1971; Hornaday et al., 1961; Thomas, 1970); 1.5 to 2% coke suffi- ces for this purpose. According to Figure 10 the cycle time is then 0.4 h, which is clearly suboptimal, not only for the butadiene yield, but also for the selectivity. Indeed, after Ind. Eng. Chem., Process Des. Dev., Vol. 15, No. 2,1976 299 ! \
1.015
t (hr)
1:OIO
0.01 -
1.005
t :
0.025
* 0 . 2
0.4
0.6
0.8 Z ( m )
Figure 8. Coke profiles in the reactor.
Figure 9. Outlet butadiene flowrate as a function of time. t
I
)
2 tC Figure 10. Optimal cycle time. 300 Ind. Eng. Chem., Process Des. Dev., Vol. 15, No. 2,1976
0.1 h of dehydrogenation, the cumulative selectivity is only
0.776, after 0.3 h it amounts to 0.813, and after 0.9 h (the
value of tf corresponding to the optimum) to 0.855.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the composition of coke deposits in catalytic systems, particularly in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, vary across different reaction conditions and catalyst types, and what analytical techniques have been employed to elucidate the complex nature and diversity of coke constituents in these systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 