<quotes>
10
WWW.CEN-ONLINE.ORG
MARCH 5, 2012
COVER STORY
Experiences early in the previous decade taught the regions executives that their reliance on raw materials derived from natural gas to make ethylene put them at a cost disadvantage to the many other areas of the world that use petroleum-derived naphtha. Now ethane is so cheap that only the Middle East can produce ethylene more cost-effectively than North America can.
11
WWW.CEN-ONLINE.ORG
MARCH 5, 2012
PETROCHEMICALS
CHEMICAL executives can be forgiven for having to get up to speed in short order.
Until 2005, shale depositswhich lie be neath a wide swath of the countrywere an eccentric source of natural gas. That was about the time that exploration com panies perfected horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing techniques to liberate gas that was tightly locked into shale. Shale has since become the source of more than one-quarter of the natural gas produced in the U.S.
12
WWW.CEN-ONLINE.ORG
MARCH 5, 2012
Stekla notes that profit margins for eth ylene on the spot market are now the high est they have been since 1988. Spot prices have been extremely high, even though demand is relatively tepid, he says.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The cost of producing ethylene from ethane in North America is significantly lower compared to using naphtha. This is due to the abundance and affordability of natural gas liquids, particularly ethane, which has become a dominant source of natural gas in the US. As a result, ethylene producers in North America enjoy high profit margins, especially in comparison to European and Asian chemical producers who rely on more expensive petroleum-derived feedstocks. These favorable market conditions have led to an increase in investments and expansions within the North American petrochemical industry.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
北美生产乙烯从乙烷的成本远低于使用石脑油。这是由于北美天然气液体，特别是乙烷的丰富和经济性成为天然气的主要来源。因此，北美乙烯生产商享有高额利润，尤其是在与依赖更昂贵石油衍生原料的欧洲和亚洲化学生产商相比时。这些有利的市场条件导致北美石化行业投资和扩张的增加。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
