<quotes>
A DFT study of CC bond hydrogenolysis in alkanes on silica-supported zirconium hydrides shows that only the latter are capable of catalysing this process under mild conditions.

Silica-supported zirconium hydrides draw recently much attention due to their ability to catalyse low-temperature olefin polymerization, CC bond hydrogenolysis in alkanes under mild conditions and H/D isotope exchange in alkanes.

On the other hand, Yermakov et al. considered grafted zirconium dihydrides (SiO)2ZrH2 as the catalytic sites in this system.

Zirconium dihydrides, however, were found to be much more active in the isotope exchange reaction.

Moreover,we calculated the activation parameters of H/D exchange for zirconium dihydrides, which are in a much better agreement with experimental data than those for monohydrides.

The process begins with the formation of n-butyl derivative 10 (E = 3.8 kcal mol1, G298 = 2.2 kcal mol1) via transition state 9 (E = 12.6 kcal mol1, G298 = 22.5 kcal mol1 relative to free reagents).

The cleavage of the C2C3 bond in the n-butyl fragment (10  12) requires the overcoming of the top-most energy barrier on the reaction path, transition state 11 (E = 31.9 kcal mol1, G298 = 33.0 kcal mol1 relative to 10).

We concluded that zirconium dihydrides 2, which existence was postulated in 1977 by Yermakov et al., unlike zirconium monohydrides 1, are capable to catalyse alkane hydrogenolysis under mild conditions.

Nevertheless, it is of no doubt that dihydrides 2 could coexist with monohydrides 1 on the silica surface.

In our opinion, a more detailed experimental study has to be performed to determine the structure of real active centres in this catalytic system.

This work was supported by the Russian Foundation for Basic Research (grant nos. 02-03-32101, 02-03-06663 and 02-03-32781).

We are grateful to Professor O. N. Temkin and Professor G. V. Lisichkin for comments and helpful discussions.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The study highlights that silica-supported zirconium dihydrides are more efficient catalysts for alkane hydrogenolysis under mild conditions compared to zirconium monohydrides. The process involves the formation of n-butyl derivative, followed by the cleavage of the C2C3 bond. Zirconium dihydrides 2, postulated by Yermakov et al., are found to be capable of catalyzing alkane hydrogenolysis, whereas monohydrides 1 predominantly form on the silica surface during catalyst preparation. However, the coexistence of dihydrides and monohydrides on the silica surface suggests that detailed experimental studies are required to determine the structure of the active centers in this catalytic system.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
研究强调，在温和条件下，二氧化硅支持的锆二氢化物比锆单氢化物更有效的催化烷烃氢解反应。该过程涉及n-丁基衍生物的形成，随后是C2C3键的断裂。Yermakov等人提出的锆二氢化物2被发现能够催化烷烃氢解，而主要在催化剂制备过程中在二氧化硅表面形成锆单氢化物1。然而，锆二氢化物和锆单氢化物共存于二氧化硅表面的事实表明，需要进行详细的实验研究来确定此催化系统中活性中心的结构。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
