<quotes>

[1] "Bimetallic catalysts started to gain considerable commercial interest in the 1960s for their use in hydrocarbon reforming because they displayed activities unlike those of the monometallic catalysts."
[2] "To understand the origins of the novel catalytic properties, bimetallic surfaces have also gained a considerable amount of interest for fundamental surface science research."
[3] "The modification effect is especially important when the admetal coverage is in the submonolayer to monolayer regime."
[4] "There are two critical factors that contribute to the modification of the electronic and chemical properties of a metal in a bimetallic surface."
[5] "First, the formation of heteroatom bonds changes the electronic environment of the metal surface, giving rise to modifications of its electronic structure through the ligand effect."
[6] "Second, the geometry of the bimetallic structure is typically different from that of the parent metals, e.g., the average metalmetal bond lengths change, resulting in the strain effect that is known to modify the electronic structure of the metal through changes in orbital overlap."
[7] "In the past decade there have been significant efforts in density functional theory (DFT) calculations and ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) experiments on bimetallic surfaces."
[8] "DFT modeling results clearly indicate that the modification on the surface d-band center is significantly different for the three types of bimetallic structures."
[9] "Surface science results, using several probe molecules, also confirm the different chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces with surface monolayer and subsurface monolayer structures."
[10] "In addition, the combination of DFT modeling and experimental results reveal a general correlation between the position of the surface d-band center and the adsorption energy for various bimetallic structures, making it possible to predict bimetallic structures with desirable chemical properties."
[11] "Although studies on model bimetallic surfaces provide fundamental insight into the novel catalytic properties, in an industrially relevant supported catalyst the active metal will be present in the form of nanoparticles on a high-surface-area support."
[12] "The primary objective of the current review is to provide correlations between model surfaces and supported catalysts for several types of catalytic reactions."
[13] "We will utilize successful examples, such as hydrogenation reactions, to demonstrate the feasibility of bridging the materials and pressure gaps between model surfaces and real-world catalysis."
[14] "We will also use other reactions to point out the challenges in applying fundamental surface science studies to predict stable bimetallic structures for catalysis."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

Bimetallic catalysts gained significant commercial interest in the 1960s for their unique activities in hydrocarbon reforming, unlike monometallic catalysts. Fundamental surface science research has been conducted to understand the novel catalytic properties of bimetallic surfaces. The modification effect is crucial when the admetal coverage is in the submonolayer to monolayer regime. Two critical factors contribute to the modification of the electronic and chemical properties of a metal in a bimetallic surface: the formation of heteroatom bonds changes the electronic environment of the metal surface through the ligand effect, and the geometry of the bimetallic structure is typically different from that of the parent metals, resulting in the strain effect that modifies the electronic structure of the metal through changes in orbital overlap. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations and ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) experiments on bimetallic surfaces have been conducted in the past decade. DFT modeling results show that the modification on the surface d-band center is significantly different for the three types of bimetallic structures. Surface science results confirm the different chemical properties of bimetallic surfaces with surface monolayer and subsurface monolayer structures. The combination of DFT modeling and experimental results reveals a general correlation between the position of the surface d-band center and the adsorption energy for various bimetallic structures, making it possible to predict bimetallic structures with desirable chemical properties. Although studies on model bimetallic surfaces provide fundamental insight into the novel catalytic properties, in an industrially relevant supported catalyst, the active metal will be present in the form of nanoparticles on a high-surface-area support. The current review aims to provide correlations between model surfaces and supported catalysts for several types of catalytic reactions. Successful examples, such as hydrogenation reactions, will be utilized to demonstrate the feasibility of bridging the materials and pressure gaps between model surfaces and real-world catalysis. Other reactions will be used to point out the challenges in applying fundamental surface science studies to predict stable bimetallic structures for catalysis.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

自20世纪60年代以来，双金属催化剂因其在烃类重整中表现出与单金属催化剂不同的独特活性，引起了商业上的广泛关注。为了理解双金属表面新颖催化性能的起源，双金属表面在基础表面科学研究中也获得了相当大的关注。当吸附金属的覆盖度在亚单层到单层范围内时，修改效应尤为重要。有两个关键因素导致双金属表面中金属的电子和化学性质的改变：首先，异原子键的形成改变了金属表面的电子环境，通过配位效应引起其电子结构的改变；其次，双金属结构的几何形状通常与母体金属不同，例如，平均金属-金属键长的变化，导致通过轨道重叠变化修改金属的电子结构的应变效应。在过去十年中，对双金属表面的密度泛函理论（DFT）计算和超高真空（UHV）实验进行了大量努力。DFT建模结果清楚地表明，三种类型的双金属结构对表面d带中心的修改显著不同。表面科学结果，使用几种探针分子，也证实了具有表面单层和次表面单层结构的双金属表面的不同化学性质。此外，DFT建模和实验结果的结合揭示了表面d带中心的位置与各种双金属结构的吸附能之间的普遍相关性，使预测具有理想化学性质的双金属结构成为可能。尽管对模型双金属表面的研究为新颖的催化性能提供了基础见解，但在工业相关的支撑催化剂中，活性金属将以高表面积支撑上的纳米粒子形式存在。当前综述的主要目标是为几种类型的催化反应提供模型表面和支撑催化剂之间的相关性。我们将利用成功的例子，如氢化反应，来证明在模型表面和实际催化之间架起材料和压力差距的可行性。我们还将使用其他反应来指出将基础表面科学研究应用于预测催化用稳定双金属结构的挑战。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
