<quotes>

[1] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
[2] "Direct dehydrogenation of lower alkanes is an energy intensive reaction; however, oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation."
[3] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
[4] "Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation."
[5] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
[6] "Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation."
[7] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
[8] "Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation. However, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.最近开发的关键策略和方法，以增强直接脱氢过程中支撑金属催化剂的催化稳定性，包括氧化脱氢(ODH)，它有可能降低实现脱氢所需的能量需求。然而，商业ODH技术取决于创新的催化剂和工艺设计，包括内热脱氢步骤与外热氢燃烧的适当协同，以及选择性CH和氢燃烧催化剂的设计。尽管有大量的报告和许多涵盖该主题不同方面的评论，以及对ODH超过二十年的研究，实验室成就和工业实施之间仍然存在差距。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
