<quotes>
[1] "The MEAM potentials were fitted to reproduce the experimental values of the lattice parameters, cohesive energies and surface energies of pure Pt and Pd metals, as well as the density functional theory calculation results of the lattice parameters and heat of formation of L12 Pt3Pd, L10 PtPd and L12 PtPd3 crystal."
[2] "Using the MC method and the developed MEAM potentials, we calculated the Pt concentrations in the outermost three layers of the equilibrium (111), (100) and (110) extended surfaces as well as the outermost surfaces of the equilibrium cubo-octahedral nanoparticles of PtPd alloys."
[3] "Our simulation results showed that the Pd atoms would segregate into the outermost layers of the extended surfaces and the Pt concentration would increase monotonically from the extended surfaces into the bulk."
[4] "The equilibrium PtPd nanoparticles were found to have Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores."
[5] "In the shell of the PtPd nanoparticles, the Pd atoms were predicted to preferably segregate to the (100) facets rather than the (111) facets."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The MEAM potentials were calibrated to match the lattice parameters, cohesive energies, and surface energies of pure Pt and Pd metals, as well as the theoretical lattice parameters and heat of formation of specific PtPd alloy crystals. These potentials were then utilized in Monte Carlo simulations to analyze the surface segregation in PtPd alloys.

2. Monte Carlo simulations were performed on the outermost three layers of the (111), (100), and (110) extended surfaces, as well as the outermost surfaces of equilibrium cubo-octahedral nanoparticles of PtPd alloys, to determine the Pt concentrations.

3. The simulations revealed that Pd atoms segregated to the outermost layers of the extended surfaces, leading to an increasing Pt concentration from the surface into the bulk.

4. Equilibrium PtPd nanoparticles were characterized by Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, indicating distinct segregation patterns within these nanoparticles.

5. In the shells of PtPd nanoparticles, Pd atoms were predicted to preferentially segregate to the (100) facets over the (111) facets.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. MEAM势函数被调整以匹配纯Pt和Pd金属的晶格参数、结合能和表面能，以及特定PtPd合金晶体的理论晶格参数和热形成焓。这些势函数随后在蒙特卡罗模拟中应用，以分析PtPd合金的表面分离现象。

2. 对于(111)、(100)和(110)延伸表面的最外层三层以及等效立方八面体纳米粒子的最外层表面，进行了蒙特卡罗模拟，以计算Pt浓度。

3. 模拟结果表明，Pd原子在延伸表面的最外层中发生分离，并且从表面到内部的Pt浓度呈单调增加趋势。

4. 等效PtPd纳米颗粒具有Pd富集壳层和Pt富集核心，显示了这些纳米颗粒内不同的分离模式。

5. 在PtPd纳米颗粒的壳层中，Pd原子倾向于优先在(100)晶面而不是(111)晶面上进行分离。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
