<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide specific information on the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), the interplay between various catalysts, the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, the proposed reaction mechanisms, or the role of site isolation in addressing selectivity issues. However, it does discuss the role of vanadium in the ammoxidation of propane to acrylonitrile, which involves the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene. The literature suggests that vanadium plays a key role in the selective activation of propane, with the presence of two competitive routes involving different centers associated with vanadium ions. Ammonia chemisorption selectively inhibits one of the two routes and favors the pathway through intermediate propene formation. Supra-surface VS+-oxide catalyzes the unselective NH3---N2 conversion with a lowering in acrylonitrile selectivity. Vanadium ions also catalyze the reoxidation of supra-surface SbS+-oxide, the active species for acrylonitrile synthesis from intermediate propene. The reoxidation of supra-surface antimony oxide depends probably on the non-stoichiometry of vanadium antimonate and its influence on the state of vanadium. The role of ammonia in the modification of surface reactivity (acid-base and redox properties) has also been shown as well as the presence of a complex surface network which explain various key features observed in the catalytic behavior. The design of new improved catalysts for propane ammoxidation thus requires a better understanding of all the above factors and finding the way for their control, but the study of this reaction offers several clues for the development of new classes of selective catalysts in alkane functionalization.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有提供关于烷烃氧化脱氢(ODH)、各种催化剂之间的相互作用、实现高选择性和转化率的挑战、提出的反应机制或位点隔离在解决选择性问题中的作用的具体信息。然而，它确实讨论了在丙烷转化为丙烯腈的氨氧化过程中，钒的作用，这涉及到丙烷氧化脱氢为丙烯。文献表明，钒在丙烷的有选择性活化中起着关键作用，存在两个涉及与钒离子相关联的不同中心的竞争途径。氨化学吸附有选择性地抑制了两个途径中的一个，并有利于通过中间体丙烯形成的途径。超表面VS+-氧化物催化了NH3---N2的非选择性转化，降低了丙烯腈的选择性。钒离子还催化了超表面SbS+-氧化物的再氧化，这是从中间体丙烯合成丙烯腈的活性物种。超表面锑氧化物的再氧化可能取决于钒锑酸盐的非化学计量性和其对钒状态的影响。氨在表面反应性(酸碱性和氧化还原性)的改变中也发挥了作用，以及存在一个复杂的表面网络，这解释了在催化行为中观察到的各种关键特征。设计新的改进的丙烷氨氧化催化剂需要更好地理解所有上述因素，并找到控制这些因素的方法，但对这一反应的研究为开发新的选择性催化剂类别提供了线索，用于烷烃的功能化。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
