<quotes>

[1] "Catalytic paraffin dehydrogenation for the production of olefins has been in commercial use since the late 1930s, while catalytic paraffin oxydehydrogenation for olefin production has not yet been commercialized."
[2] "During World War II, catalytic dehydrogenation of butanes over a chromia-alumina catalyst was practiced for the production of butenes that were then dimerized to octenes and hydrogenated to octanes to yield high-octane aviation fuel."
[3] "Dehydrogenation employs chromia-alumina catalysts and, more recently, platinum or modified platinum catalysts."
[4] "Important aspects in dehydro- genation entail approaching equilibrium or near-equilibrium conversions while minimizing side reactions and coke formation."
[5] "Commercial processes for the catalytic dehydrogenation of propane and butanes attain per-pass conversions in the range of 3060%, while the catalytic dehydrogenation of C10C14 paraffins typically operates at conversion levels of 1020%."
[6] "In the year 2000, nearly 7 million metric tons of C3C4 olefins and 2 million metric tons of C10C14 range olefins were produced via catalytic dehydrogenation."
[7] "Oxydehydrogenation employs catalysts containing vanadium and, more recently, platinum."
[8] "Oxydehydrogenation at 1000 C and very short residence time over Pt and Pt-Sn catalysts can produce ethylene in higher yields than in steam cracking."
[9] "However, there are a number of issues related to safety and process upsets that need to be addressed."
[10] "Important objectives in oxydehydrogenation are attaining high selectivity to olefins with high conversion of paraffin and minimizing potentially dangerous mixtures of paraffin and oxidant."
[11] "More recently, the use of carbon dioxide as an oxidant for ethane conversion to ethylene has been investigated as a potential way to reduce the negative impact of dangerous oxidantparaffin mixtures and to achieve higher selectivity."
[12] "While catalytic dehydrogenation reflects a relatively mature and well-established technology, oxydehydrogenation can in many respects be characterized as still being in its infancy."
[13] "Oxydehydrogenation, however, offers substantial thermodynamic advantages and is an area of active research in many fronts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Catalytic paraffin dehydrogenation for the production of olefins has been in commercial use since the late 1930s. During World War II, catalytic dehydrogenation of butanes over a chromia-alumina catalyst was practiced for the production of butenes that were then dimerized to octenes and hydrogenated to octanes to yield high-octane aviation fuel. Dehydrogenation employs chromia-alumina catalysts and, more recently, platinum or modified platinum catalysts. Important aspects in dehydrogenation include approaching equilibrium or near-equilibrium conversions while minimizing side reactions and coke formation. Commercial processes for the catalytic dehydrogenation of propane and butanes attain per-pass conversions in the range of 3060%, while the catalytic dehydrogenation of C10C14 paraffins typically operates at conversion levels of 1020%. In the year 2000, nearly 7 million metric tons of C3C4 olefins and 2 million metric tons of C10C14 range olefins were produced via catalytic dehydrogenation. Oxydehydrogenation employs catalysts containing vanadium and, more recently, platinum. Oxydehydrogenation at 1000 C and very short residence time over Pt and Pt-Sn catalysts can produce ethylene in higher yields than in steam cracking. However, there are a number of issues related to safety and process upsets that need to be addressed. Important objectives in oxydehydrogenation are attaining high selectivity to olefins with high conversion of paraffin and minimizing potentially dangerous mixtures of paraffin and oxidant. More recently, the use of carbon dioxide as an oxidant for ethane conversion to ethylene has been investigated as a potential way to reduce the negative impact of dangerous oxidantparaffin mixtures and to achieve higher selectivity. While catalytic dehydrogenation reflects a relatively mature and well-established technology, oxydehydrogenation can in many respects be characterized as still being in its infancy. Oxydehydrogenation, however, offers substantial thermodynamic advantages and is an area of active research in many fronts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.催化石蜡脱氢生产烯烃自20世纪30年代末以来一直在商业上使用。在第二次世界大战期间，使用铬酸铝催化剂催化丁烷脱氢，用于生产丁烯，然后将其二聚为辛烯并氢化为辛烷，以产生高辛烷值航空燃料。脱氢使用铬酸铝催化剂，最近使用铂或改性铂催化剂。脱氢的重要方面包括接近平衡或接近平衡的转化率，同时最小化副反应和焦炭形成。商业上用于催化脱氢的丙烷和丁烷的每程转化率在30%至60%之间，而C10C14石蜡的催化脱氢通常在10%至20%的转化率水平下运行。2000年，通过催化脱氢生产了近700万吨C3C4烯烃和200万吨C10C14范围的烯烃。氧脱氢使用含钒的催化剂，最近使用铂。在1000 C和非常短的停留时间下，Pt和Pt-Sn催化剂上的氧脱氢可以产生比蒸汽裂解更高的乙烯产量。然而，存在许多与安全和工艺中断相关的问题需要解决。氧脱氢的重要目标是在高转化率下获得高选择性的烯烃，并最小化潜在危险的石蜡和氧化剂混合物。最近，使用二氧化碳作为氧化剂将乙烷转化为乙烯的研究，作为一种潜在的方法，以减少危险氧化剂石蜡混合物的负面影响，并实现更高的选择性。虽然催化脱氢在许多方面可以被视为相对成熟和建立良好的技术，但氧脱氢在许多方面仍处于起步阶段。然而，氧脱氢提供了实质性的热力学优势，并且在许多领域都是一个活跃的研究领域。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
