<quotes>
[1] "An investigation of the radioactive emanation produced by thorium compounds."
[2] "The electrical methods employed for the measurement of emanating power and radioactivity depend on the universal property of the radiations from substances known as radioactive of ionising or producing charged carriers from the gas through which they pass whereby the gas is rendered capable of conducting a current of electricity."
[3] "The amount of the current, measured by means of a quadrant electrometer, affords the means of comparing the intensities of radiations, and the method is capable of a degree of precision and rapidity impossible with the better known photographic method."
[4] "The means employed for eliminating the effects of the emanation from the effects of the straight line radiation and vice versa were explained."
[5] "The first question is conclusively answered in the affirmative. After solution and reprecipitation, no difference was observed in the emanating powers of thorium compounds prepared from ordinary thoria and thoria de-emanated as completely as possible by intense ignition."
[6] "With regard to the second question, the attempts first made to separate from thorium a substance to which the emanating power could be traced were not successful."
[7] "No change in either the emanating power or radioactivity was observed in thoria prepared by these methods."
[8] "Subsequently, results of a different character were obtained."
[9] "It was found that water vapour increases and desiccation decreases the normal value of the emanating power, the extremes varying in the ratio of 2 to 1."
[10] "An investigation of the third point, the chemical nature of the emanation itself, showed that this possesses the property of chemical inertness which characterises the members of the argon family."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. An investigation into the radioactive emanation produced by thorium compounds was conducted.
2. Electrical methods were utilized for measuring emanating power and radioactivity, relying on the radiation's ability to ionize gases and create a current.
3. The amount of current, measured via a quadrant electrometer, allows for comparison of radiation intensities with high precision and speed compared to photographic methods.
4. Techniques for removing the effects of emanation from straight-line radiation and vice versa were discussed.
5. The first question was affirmatively resolved; thorium compounds prepared through ordinary thoria and fully de-emanated thorium showed no difference in emanating powers.
6. Initial attempts to isolate a substance in thorium that could be traced to emanating power were unsuccessful.
7. There was no change in emanating power or radioactivity in thoria prepared by certain methods.
8. Subsequent findings revealed that water vapor increases and desiccation decreases the normal emanating power, with extremes differing by a factor of 2.
9. The chemical nature of the emanation was found to have chemical inertness akin to the argon family members.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 对钍化合物产生的放射性逸出进行了研究。
2. 利用电流的方法测量了逸出功率和辐射性，依赖于辐射对气体的离子化作用以及由此产生的电流。
3. 使用四分仪电表测量的电流量可以用来比较辐射强度，这种方法的精确性和速度比已知的摄影方法更高。
4. 用于消除逸出效应对直线辐射影响的手段被阐述了。
5. 第一个问题得到了肯定的回答；通过普通钍和完全通过强烈燃烧去除了钍的化合物，在逸出功率方面没有观察到差异。
6. 首次尝试从钍中分离出能够追踪到逸出功率的物质并不成功。
7. 使用某些方法制备的钍没有改变其逸出功率或辐射性。
8. 后续研究发现，水蒸气增加而干燥减少正常逸出功率，最大值与最小值之比为2。
9. 该逸出物的化学性质具有类似于氩族元素的化学惰性。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
