<quotes>
[1] "Silica-supported bis(alkyl) complexes of Cr(IV) and -vanadium(IV), (SiO)2M(CH2R)2, undergo surprisingly clean thermal transformations to generate supported alkylidene complexes, (SiO)2MCHR, with concurrent liberation of RCH3."
[2] "Isotope-labeling and kinetics experiments support a mechanistic assignment of intramolecular α-H elimination."
[3] "The reactions are quantitative and kinetically first order, suggesting that all surface organometallic complexes possess or can access very similar coordination environments."
[4] "When surface complex 1 was heated, typically at 69 C, in a vacuum for 10 h, 1 equiv of neopentane was evolved (Table 2) and was the only volatile product detected by GC."
[5] "Treatment of 4 with 50 Torr of HCl(g) liberated (0.9  0.1) equiv of CMe4 as the only gaseous product."
[6] "The product 6 has a magnetic moment of 1.63 μB/V, Figure 2b, consistent with its formulation as a mononuclear d1 V(IV) surface complex, as shown in eq 5."
[7] "Although similar labeling studies were not feasible for 2 and 3 (due to the unavailability of the selectively labeled Me3SiCD2 ligand), their behavior is so similar to that of 1 in all other respects (vide infra) that we propose analogous alkylidene formulations for 5 and 6."
[8] "The rate constant for thermolysis of (SiO)2Cr(CD2C(CH3)3)2, 1-αD4, was obtained in a similar fashion. Thermolysis of 1-αD4 is first order but significantly slower than thermolysis of 1, Figure 3, consistent with a substantial primary kinetic isotope effect."
[9] "Reaction of 4-αD with either HCl or DCl caused the evolution of 0.9  0.1 equiv of CMe4."
[10] "Finally, when 3 was heated at 58 C in vacuo, 1 equiv of SiMe4 was liberated quantitatively, Table 2, while the intensity of the ν(CH) region in the IR spectrum of the solid decreased by (51  2)%, eq 5."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Silica-supported chromium(IV) and vanadium(IV) complexes, (SiO)2M(CH2R)2, undergo thermal transformations to generate alkylidene complexes, (SiO)2MCHR, releasing alkane molecules. The reactions are quantitative and kinetically first order, indicating that all surface organometallic complexes have similar coordination environments. Isotope-labeling and kinetics experiments support intramolecular α-H elimination as the mechanism.

2. When heated, silica-supported chromium(IV) complexes produce neopentane as the only volatile product. Treatment with HCl liberates CMe4, consistent with α-H elimination to form alkylidene complexes.

3. Silica-supported vanadium(IV) complexes, similarly, undergo thermal transformations to release SiMe4, with the alkylidene complex, 6, having a magnetic moment of 1.63 μB/V, consistent with a mononuclear d1 V(IV) formulation.

4. Similar to chromium complexes, vanadium complexes undergo α-H elimination, forming alkylidene complexes. Isotope labeling supports this mechanism.

5. The rate of thermal decomposition of chromium complexes containing deuterated compounds is slower than those without deuterium, indicating a primary kinetic isotope effect.

6. Reaction of the deuterated chromium complex with HCl or DCl produces CMe4, with varying degrees of deuteration, demonstrating the α-H elimination process.

7. Silica-supported vanadium complexes, like chromium complexes, release SiMe4 upon heating, with the intensity of the ν(CH) region decreasing in the IR spectrum, indicating the transformation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 硅酸盐支持的四价铬和四价钒复合物，(SiO)2M(CH2R)2，经历热转变生成支持的烷基烯丙基复合物，(SiO)2MCHR，并同时释放出RCH3。反应是定量的且动力学上是一级的，表明所有表面有机金属复合物具有或可以访问非常相似的配位环境。同位素标记和动力学实验支持内部分子α-H消除作为机制。

2. 当加热时，硅酸盐支持的四价铬复合物产生正戊烷作为唯一的挥发性产物。与HCl处理会释放CMe4，这与α-H消除形成烷基烯丙基复合物一致。

3. 相似地，硅酸盐支持的四价钒复合物在热作用下释放出SiMe4，6号化合物具有1.63 μB/V的磁矩，这与单核d1 V(IV)的形成一致。

4. 类似于铬复合物，钒复合物也通过α-H消除形成烷基烯丙基复合物。同位素标记支持这个过程。

5. 含有氘化化合物的铬复合物的热分解速率比无氘化合物慢，表明存在初级动力学同位素效应。

6. 氘化的铬复合物与HCl或DCl反应产生CMe4，不同程度的氘化，证明了α-H消除的过程。

7. 加热时，硅酸盐支持的钒复合物释放出SiMe4，红外光谱中ν(CH)区域的强度降低，表明了这种转化。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
