<quotes>

[1] "The results presented so far provide the picture for what happens on the pristine low coverage Pd(111) surface. It is well established that the relative abundance of different surface species and their role in the mechanism can change as the pressure and hence the surface coverage are increased to mimic actual reaction condition. Below we examine the effects of higher surface coverages of ethylidyne, atomic carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen on chemisorption and hydrogenation reactivity."

[2] "Both low pressure surface science as well as higher pressure fixed-bed reactor studies indicate that ethylidyne is present to a significant extent on Pd and Pt under reaction conditions. Ethylidyne is the primary decomposition product of ethylene and is taught only to be a spectator species."

[3] "The binding energy of ethylidyne at the 3-fold fcc site on Pd(111) is 620 and 636 kJ/mol, respectively. The optimized structures for ethylidyne on the Pd19 cluster and the 3-layer Pd slab are shown in Figure 13."

[4] "Ethylene is thought to readily convert to ethylidyne on supported Pd particles.6,86 The conversion of ethylene on Pd(111) however is thought to be significantly lower. 87-89 This is most likely due to the presence of unsaturated defect sites on the supported particles as compared to the well-defined Pd(111) surface."

[5] "As was indicated, the working surface of an ethylene hydrogenation catalyst may contain considerable amounts of ethylidyne and other hydrocarbon intermediates which can significantly affect chemisorption and surface reactivity."

[6] "Ethylene is thought to readily convert to ethylidyne on supported Pd particles.6,86 The conversion of ethylene on Pd(111) however is thought to be significantly lower."

[7] "The influence of oxygen on the chemisorption of ethylene depends on the ethylene adsorption mode, the surface coverage, as well as the specific local bonding configuration of ethylene and oxygen."

[8] "We find very similar results when ethylene is adsorbed on surfaces covered with carbon. This analysis more closely mimics the surface under working reaction conditions where a fair amount of surface carbon intermediates exist."

[9] "Adsorbateadsorbate interactions not only change the energy of adsorption but can also significantly alter the activation barriers as well as the reaction selectivity."

[10] "First-principle density functional theoretical calculations were used to help provide a more detailed atomic view of the ethylene chemisorption and hydrogenation on well-defined model Pd(111) systems."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The effects of higher surface coverages of ethylidyne, atomic carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen on chemisorption and hydrogenation reactivity are examined.

2. Ethylidyne is present in significant quantities on Pd and Pt surfaces under reaction conditions and is considered a spectator species.

3. The binding energy of ethylidyne on Pd(111) is 620 to 636 kJ/mol.

4. The conversion of ethylene to ethylidyne on Pd(111) is lower compared to supported Pd particles due to unsaturated defect sites.

5. The working surface of ethylene hydrogenation catalysts contains ethylidyne and other hydrocarbon intermediates that significantly affect chemisorption and surface reactivity.

6. The conversion of ethylene to ethylidyne on Pd(111) is lower compared to supported Pd particles.

7. The presence of oxygen affects the chemisorption of ethylene on the surface, depending on the ethylene adsorption mode, surface coverage, and local bonding configuration.

8. When ethylene is adsorbed on surfaces covered with carbon, the analysis closely mimics the surface under working reaction conditions.

9. Adsorbate-adsorbate interactions change the energy of adsorption and can significantly alter activation barriers and reaction selectivity.

10. First-principle density functional theoretical calculations are utilized to provide a detailed atomic view of ethylene chemisorption and hydrogenation on model Pd(111) systems.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 在更高的表面覆盖率下，乙炔、原子碳、氧气和氢气对化学吸附和氢化反应性的影响被研究。

2. 乙炔在钯和铂表面的反应条件下以显著的数量存在，并被视为旁观物种。

3. 乙炔在Pd(111)上的结合能为620至636千焦/摩尔。

4. 与负载钯颗粒相比，在Pd(111)表面上乙烷转化为乙炔的效率较低，这可能是由于不饱和缺陷位点的存在。

5. 在工作催化剂表面，乙炔和其他含碳中间体的存在显着影响化学吸附和表面反应性。

6. 在Pd(111)表面上，乙烷转化为乙炔的效率低于负载钯颗粒。

7. 氧气的存在影响乙烷在表面的化学吸附，这取决于乙烷的吸附模式、表面覆盖度以及乙烷和氧气之间的局部键合配置。

8. 当乙烷吸附在覆盖有碳的表面上时，该分析更接近于工作反应条件下的表面。

9. 吸附剂-吸附剂相互作用不仅改变吸附能，还显着改变激活势垒和反应选择性。

10. 利用第一原理密度泛函理论计算提供了模型Pd(111)系统中乙烯化学吸附和氢化的详细原子视图。
