<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide specific details on how the diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. However, it does mention that doping NiO with Nb leads to the formation of a NiNb solid solution, which effectively converts NiO from a total oxidation catalyst to an efficient ODH catalytic material. The optimum incorporation of Nb ions in the NiO lattice was achieved for a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176 (Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst), resulting in high activity at low temperature and high ethene selectivity at high conversion levels. Niobium doping was found to significantly decrease the activation energy and exchange rate of labeled oxygen, indicating the elimination of nonstoichiometric electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for the total oxidation of ethane to CO2. The ethane ODH reaction proceeds on both oxides via a Mars van Krevelen mechanism with the participation of catalyst oxygen. However, the route for replenishing surface oxygen differs between the two oxides, leading to different oxygen species on the surface and consequently to the different product distribution observed in the ethane ODH reaction. On NiO, replenishment occurs by rapid dissociation of gaseous oxygen on the cation vacancies with slower incorporation and diffusion, hence leading to large concentrations of electrophilic oxygen species on the surface. Niobium fills the cationic vacancies and reduces the active sites available for dissociation, thus making diffusion the fast step of the process. Therefore, strongly bonded, less labile nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for converting ethane to ethylene, are abundant on the catalyst surface.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有提供铌氧化物的多样性质，包括它们的各种稳定形式和氧化态，如何影响它们在NiO催化剂中作为乙烷氧化脱氢反应的掺杂剂的行为的具体细节。然而，它确实提到，用Nb掺杂NiO会导致NiNb固溶体的形成，这有效地将NiO从一个完全氧化催化剂转化为一个有效的ODH催化材料。当Nb/Ni比为0.176（Ni0.85Nb0.15催化剂）时，Nb离子在NiO晶格中的最佳掺入得以实现，这导致在低温下具有高活性，在高转化率下具有高乙烯选择性。铌掺杂被发现显著降低了标记氧的活化能和交换率，表明消除了非化学计量的亲电活性氧物种，这些物种负责将乙烷完全氧化为CO2。两种氧化物上的乙烷ODH反应都通过Mars van Krevelen机制进行，参与催化剂氧。然而，两种氧化物补充表面氧的途径不同，导致表面出现不同的氧物种，从而导致在乙烷ODH反应中观察到的不同产物分布。在NiO上，补充是通过在阳离子空位上快速解离气态氧，而较慢的掺入和扩散，从而在表面上产生大量的亲电氧物种。铌填充了阳离子空位，减少了可用于解离的活性位点，从而使扩散成为过程的快速步骤。因此，强烈结合的、不太可移动的亲核氧物种，选择性地将乙烷转化为乙烯，在催化剂表面上丰富。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
