<quotes>

[1] "A sequence of steps that corresponds essentially to reaction (19) has been analyzed by Frash and van Santen [24] in their theoreti- cal study of ethane activation on gallium-exchanged zeolites,with dihydridogallium ions as the active sites."
[2] "In their scheme,the alkyl- hydridogallium species in reaction (19) decomposes to produce an alkene molecule and regenerate the dihydrido active site."
[3] "Our results suggest that the decomposition of the alkylhydrido inter- mediate occurs by reactions (17) and (18) instead."
[4] "The results in the present paper complement our previous ones on the genesis of the reduced gallium species in Ga/HZSM5 cata- lysts."
[5] "The formation of isolated Ga(I) species from binuclear oxidic gallium clusters involves the production of Lewis from Brnsted acid sites in a 1:1 basis."
[6] "This process is accompanied by some de- alumination of the zeolite framework to produce extraframework alumina,which also helps to explain the decrease in Brnsted acid- ity and increase in Lewis acidity."
[7] "When hydrogen is the reducing agent,the decomposition of the binuclear oxidic species is partially reversed when hydrogen flow is replaced by inert gas,but when the reducing agent is propane the formation of isolated Ga(I) species is irreversible,probably because it is stabilized by alkyl groups bonded to gallium,that were seen to be formed and to be stable when propane flow is replaced by inert gas."
[8] "Dihydridogallium ions were observed after reduction in hydro- gen,but were slowly decomposed when hydrogen flow was replaced by inert gas."
[9] "This slow decomposition of the dihydridogal- lium ions shows that it cannot intermediate hydrogen desorption during the aromatization reaction."
[10] "However,when hydrogen is replaced by propane,the dihydrido species appear to be rapidly replaced by alkylgallium ions."
[11] "Under propane flow,dihydridogal- lium cations were never detected."
[12] "These facts show that it cannot be the active site for alkane activation,as proposed by some inves- tigators."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The alkyl mechanism in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts involves a sequence of steps that are analogous to the activation of ethane on gallium-exchanged zeolites, as analyzed by Frash and van Santen. In their scheme, the alkyl-hydridogallium species decomposes to produce an alkene molecule and regenerate the dihydrido active site. However, our results suggest that the decomposition of the alkylhydrido intermediate occurs by reactions (17) and (18) instead.
2.Comparing this mechanism to the carbenium mechanism, the CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) because it involves the breaking of a strong C-H bond. The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, including isolated Ga(I) species formed from binuclear oxidic gallium clusters. The formation of isolated Ga(I) species involves the production of Lewis acid sites from Brnsted acid sites in a 1:1 basis. This process is accompanied by some de-alumination of the zeolite framework to produce extraframework alumina, which helps explain the decrease in Brnsted acidity and increase in Lewis acidity.
3.When hydrogen is the reducing agent, the decomposition of the binuclear oxidic species is partially reversed when hydrogen flow is replaced by inert gas. However, when the reducing agent is propane, the formation of isolated Ga(I) species is irreversible, probably because it is stabilized by alkyl groups bonded to gallium. Dihydridogallium ions were observed after reduction in hydrogen but were slowly decomposed when hydrogen flow was replaced by inert gas. This slow decomposition shows that dihydridogallium ions cannot intermediate hydrogen desorption during the aromatization reaction. However, when hydrogen is replaced by propane, the dihydrido species appear to be rapidly replaced by alkylgallium ions. Under propane flow, dihydridogallium cations were never detected. These facts show that dihydridogallium ions cannot be the active site for alkane activation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在基于镓的催化剂上的丙烷脱氢(PDH)反应中,烷基机制涉及一系列类似于Frash和van Santen分析的镓交换沸石上乙烷活化的步骤。在他们的方案中,烷基-氢化镓物种分解产生一个烯烃分子并再生二氢化活性位点。然而,我们的结果表明,烷基氢化中间体的分解是通过反应(17)和(18)发生的。
2.与卡宾机制相比,CH活化步骤被提议为速率决定步骤(RDS),因为它涉及强C-H键的断裂。烷基机制适用于不同的Ga物种结构,包括从二核氧化镓簇形成的孤立Ga(I)物种。孤立Ga(I)物种的形成涉及从Brnsted酸位点以1:1的比例产生Lewis酸位点。这一过程伴随着沸石框架的一些脱铝化,产生外框架氧化铝,这有助于解释Brnsted酸度的降低和Lewis酸度的增加。
3.当氢气是还原剂时,二核氧化物种的分解在氢气流被惰性气体取代时部分可逆。然而,当还原剂是丙烷时,孤立Ga(I)物种的形成是不可逆的,可能是因为它被与镓键合的烷基基团稳定。在氢气还原后观察到二氢化镓离子,但在氢气流被惰性气体取代时缓慢分解。这种缓慢分解表明二氢化镓离子在芳构化反应中不能介导氢气的解吸。然而,当氢气被丙烷取代时,二氢化物种似乎迅速被烷基镓离子取代。在丙烷流下,从未检测到二氢化镓阳离子。这些事实表明,二氢化镓离子不能作为烷烃活化的活性位点。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
