I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


This article was downloaded by: [Laurentian University] On: 17 April 2013, At: 01:55 Publisher: Taylor & Francis Informa Ltd Registered in England and Wales Registered Number: 1072954 Registered office: Mortimer House, 37-41 Mortimer Street, London W1T 3JH, UK Catalysis Reviews: Science and Engineering Publication details, including instructions for authors and subscription information:http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/lctr20 Kinetics of Oxidative Dehydrogenation of C2C3 Alkanes on Oxide Catalysts
R. Grabowski a
a Institute of Catalysis and Surface Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences, Krakow, Poland Version of record first published: 03 Feb 2007.
To cite this article: R. Grabowski (2006): Kinetics of Oxidative Dehydrogenation of C2C3 Alkanes on Oxide Catalysts, Catalysis Reviews: Science and Engineering, 48:02, 199-268 To link to this article:  http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01614940600631413
PLEASE SCROLL DOWN FOR ARTICLE
Full terms and conditions of use: http://www.tandfonline.com/page/terms-and-conditions This article may be used for research, teaching, and private study purposes. Any substantial or systematic reproduction, redistribution, reselling, loan, sub-licensing, systematic supply, or distribution in any form to anyone is expressly forbidden.
The publisher does not give any warranty express or implied or make any representation that the contents will be complete or accurate or up to date. The accuracy of any instructions, formulae,and drug doses should be independently verified with primary sources. The publisher shall not be liable for any loss, actions, claims, proceedings, demand, or costs or damages whatsoever or howsoever caused arising directly or indirectly in connection with or arising out of the use of this material.
Kinetics of Oxidative Dehydrogenation of C2-C3 Alkanes on Oxide Catalysts
R. Grabowski
Institute of Catalysis and Surface Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences, Krakow, Poland This review is a survey of the main facts and concepts appeared in the last years on kinetics of oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of ethane, propane, butane and isobutane.
The accent is put on the mechanisms and the kinetic models used for the description of this reaction. The main catalysts for ODH of light alkanes and the specific features of each type of alkane are discussed. Influence of the type of supports, promoters, acid base properties, type of oxygen on the performance of ODH reaction is also discussed.
No clear interpretation regarding the mode of alkane activation of each stage of this reaction can be derived from the survey of the literature and the problems which are still waiting for the solution or need further studies are described.
Keywords Oxidative dehydrogenation, Light alkanes, Mechanism and kinetic models, Oxide catalysts, Alkali additives
1.
INTRODUCTION AND SCOPE
The procedures of establishing the mechanism of a chemical reaction are mainly based on a comparison of experimental kinetic dependencies with theoretical equations, established on the basis of some model mechanisms and assumed to be valid under corresponding conditions. The relationship may be expressed in the form of algebraic, differential, or integral equations that do not necessarily possess explicit analytical solutions. A theoretical kinetic model, in so far as it is possible, represents the totality of concepts regarding the nature, sequences, and rates of the reaction steps leading to Received 22 April 2005; accepted 16 December 2005.
Address correspondence to R. Grabowski, Institute of Catalysis and Surface Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences, 30-239 Krakow, Poland. E-mail: ncgrabow@cyf-kr.edu.pl Catalysis Reviews, 48:199268, 2006 Copyright # Taylor & Francis Group, LLC
ISSN: 0161-4940 print 1520-5703 online
DOI: 10.1080/01614940600631413
199 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013 the appropriate expression of the reaction rate. An empirical kinetic model rep- resents a functional dependence of the reaction rate under conditions in which the experiments are performedobviously, the validity of the dependence is limited only to the experimental conditions considered.
The determination of a molecular mechanism is a difficult task and requires use of advanced experimental and computational techniques. Even then, the conclusions reached by different authors are often not unanimous and various molecular mechanisms are proposed for the same reaction (e.g., oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride on the VPO catalysts). Neverthe- less, kinetic studies have often been used to provide useful information about the studied reaction and the catalyst operation. On the basis of these studies one can identify intermediate products, the nature and quantitative participation of particular reaction routes (parallel and consecutive reaction paths, branching of the reactions, etc.) that determine selectivity of the process, as well as the rate determining step in the sequence of the consecutive reactions. The macro- kinetic model obtained in this way is usually a starting point for the description of a molecular mechanism. In all well-known reactions such as ammonia syn- thesis, gas shift reaction, methanol synthesis, hydrocarbon dehydrogenation,and many others, kinetic studies were an essential step in the determination of the reaction mechanism. In the development of kinetic laws for surface reac- tions, it has been tacitly assumed so far that the surfaces are smooth, i.e., all parts of the surface are of the same activity; this is the so-called Langmuir type surface. As is well known, strict conformity of adsorption to the Langmuir isotherm is rarely observed due to the multitude of surface sites of different coordination and heat of adsorption, and therefore of different activity. The rate of reaction, however, varies exponentially with the activation energy and hence the reaction proceeds mainly on the most active sites of the lowest Ea:the kinetic laws apply then to the reaction on the group of the most active sites. This point of view is supported both by experimental works and by calculations of the absolute reaction rates (1), which indicate that in the case of oxides and composite catalysts of various kinds, sites active in the reaction constitute only a thousandth or less of the total number of the surface sites.
The scope of this article is to review fundamental kinetic models used in analysis of the experimental data and the proposed mechanisms for oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of light alkanes.
2.
ODH REACTION OF LIGHT ALKANES
The present global demand for light alkenes and their shortage is the conse- quence of their primary use as monomers/comonomers and a relative decrease in their production due to changes in operating conditions in catalytic cracking units. This situation has raised new interest in producing them from
R. Grabowski
200 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013 alkanes, which are generally easily available and used as low-cost feedstock for chemical production.
Dehydrogenation reactions can be used by industry for the production of light alkanes like ethene, propene, and butene, and so on. All these reactions are reversible and suffer from several limitations (2). .
Thermodynamic restriction on conversion and selectivity. .
Side reactions. .
Strong endothermic main reaction and necessity to supply heat at high temperature. .
Coke formation and resulting catalyst deactivation.
There are various approaches of research to overcome these limitations.
One of them is oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes, which overcomes most of the obstacles mentioned above. Introduction of an oxidant into the reaction mixture allows one to oxidize hydrogen that is otherwise evolved as a product of the dehydrogenation process. The reaction becomes exothermic and is able to proceed at much lower temperatures. This in turn reduces the side reactions, such as cracking of alkanes and coke formation, as well as over- comes the thermodynamic limitations. Molecular oxygen, halogens, sulfur compounds, and some other reagents can be used as oxidizing agents. The most attractive reactant for industrial purposes seems to be molecular oxygen, because of its low cost and little environmental impact (3). However, ODH has its own drawbacks, such as difficulty of controlling the consecutive oxidation of alkanes/alkenes to carbon oxides. There are also secondary problems, such as the removal of reaction heat, flammability of the reaction mixture, and the possibility of reaction runaway (4). The key issue is therefore the development of a catalyst activating only the C-H bonds of an alkane molecule. This is a global problem of key importance for the future in light of the tendency in the petrochemical industry to directly use alkanes as raw materials instead of alkenes (5, 6).
3.
TYPES OF CATALYSTS USED IN ODH OF LIGHT ALKANES The systems studied so far for ODH of light alkanes such as ethane, propane,n-butane, etc., can be approximately classified into three groups.
1.
Catalysts based on alkali and alkaline earth ions and oxides.
2.
Catalysts based on reducible transition metal oxides.
3.
Other catalysts such as B/P oxides, Ga/zeolite, LaF3/SmO, and Sn/P.
Oxidative Dehydrogenation of C2-C3 Alkanes 201 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013 Their characteristics and catalytic activity have already been analyzed in the literature (2, 710). The nature of alkane influences not only reactivity,but also the choice of catalyst. Because of the specificity of the catalytic behavior in ODH of ethane (ODHE) when compared to higher alkanes, the case of ethane will be discussed separately. The best catalytic systems in ODHE are often very poor in the ODH of higher alkanes and vice versa.
Other factors influencing selectivity and activity of the catalytic systems are the reaction conditions (feed mixture, temperature, and contact time).
Therefore, catalyst selection has to be linked to the type of alkane and the reaction conditions.
It is well known that, unlike higher alkanes, ethane contains only the primary CH bonds (420 kJ), whereas ethene, the ODH product, contains only the vinylic CH bonds (445 kJ). The latter are strong and therefore the activation of ethane requires higher temperatures. Because the energy of the vinylic CH bond is higher than that of the primary CH bond, selectivity to ethane is expected to increase with temperature. Indeed, as shown in the lit- erature (9, 11, 12), selectivity to ethene is higher at higher temperatures,and it is peculiar that catalysts that do not contain easily reducible metal ions are more selective in ODHE.
3.1.
Catalysts for ODH of Ethane
3.1.1.
Alkali and Alkaline Earth-Based Catalysts The catalytic systems that contain ions and oxides of IA and IIA groups (e.g., Li2CO3/MgO) show selective behavior in this reaction (13), but the optimal temperature for these kinds of catalysts is high (above about 8708K). The highest selectivities are achieved when chlorine containing compounds are added to the feed mixture or when a catalyst is doped with halides (14, 15).
The main effect of the chlorine ions is to generate ethyl radical species, and this effect is critical for achieving a high ethene yield (above 30%). Lunsford et al. (13, 16, 17) demonstrated the formation of surface generated gas-phase ethyl radicals at the temperatures between 7988978K and at a pressure of 1 Torr in the reactor using a matrix-isolation electron spin resonance apparatus (17). In these experiments the radicals were collected in a solid argon matrix on a sapphire rod and next were detected by ESR spectroscopy. In the proposed mechanism of ODHE over lithium promoted magnesium oxide catalyst, the resulting ethyl radicals may either react with the surface oxygen to form a surface ethoxide ion (i.e., C2H5O2) or desorb into the gas phase. The ethoxide ions may either decompose to ethene or be further oxidized to CO and CO2. The authors claim that another set of reactions is available when ethyl radicals are desorbed into the gas phase. In this case the formation of ethene or C4 products is possible, but the formation of the latter was only
R. Grabowski
202 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013 observed at high conversions and oxygen-limited conditions (i.e., oxygen conver- sion is higher than 98%). Some improvement in the selectivity to ethene is also observed for the system doped with Na, B, lanthanide oxides and SnO2 (1820).
Several other catalytic systems have been proposed, such as LiCl/NiO (21, 22), LiTiO, and LiMnTiO (23). For some, an improvement of the selectivity to ethene has been observed, but they do not show improvement in the ethene yield in comparison with the base system Li2CO3/MgO(Cl).An interesting system based on LaF3 associated with a rare oxide (CeO2 and SmO2) and doped with BaF2 has been reported as a catalyst that allows attaining approximately a 35% yield of ethene from ethane (24, 25).
3.1.2.
Catalysts Based on Reducible Oxides The catalytic activity for catalysts based on reducible oxides is usually sig- nificantly higher, but selectivities to alkenes is lower in comparison with selec- tivities of the systems described above. It has been shown (26) that oxides of vanadium, molybdenum, and niobium are active in oxidation at temperatures as low as 4738K. The conversion of ethane to ethene on various supported metal oxides such as vanadium, molybdenum, or boron oxides has been reviewed by Banares (7). The review has also demonstrated the effect of the support, metal oxide loading, and additive loading on catalytic properties. Supported multi- component oxide systems such as MoVNb (27), which are one of the most effi- cient in the production of ethene and acetic acid from ethane, are also discussed. The same catalyst was studied by Burch and Swarnakar (28) but the performance obtained was a little poorer. High selectivities to ethene can be also obtained using Keggin-type heteropolymolybdates containing Sb and W (29), but this type of catalyst suffers deactivation in long-term experiments.
Kaddouri et al. (30) studied ODHE on a and b-phases of NiMoO4 and found that the a-phase is more selective and active than the b-phase. The same reaction was also studied by Fierro et al. (31, 32) for the mixed oxide systems of the MVSb type where (M  Ni, Co, Bi, Sn) and the best results were found for the NiVSb catalyst.
It has been also found by evolutionary approach that the CrCoSnW and CrMo mixed oxides supported on a-Al2O3 (33) are promising new catalysts for the ODHE.
3.2.
Catalysts for ODH of Propane and Butane An extensive review of the catalytic systems used in ODH of lower alkanes is given in Grzybowska (8). The systems for ODH of propane (ODHP) can be divided into two groups: 1) vanadium-based systems (vanadates and vanadia dispersed on various oxides) and 2) molybdenum-containing catalysts (molyb- dates and supported MoO3). It is well known that V2O5 is not a good catalyst for the dehydrogenation of alkanes, but the same vanadia supported on Oxidative Dehydrogenation of C2-C3 Alkanes 203 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013 alumina or sepiolite gives a more selective catalyst (34, 35). These catalysts are characterized by relatively low selectivity (,40%) and yield (89%) to propene,but they are active at low temperatures (6236738K). The catalysts based on the VMgO system have been investigated in recent years by Kung et al. and other authors (3540). These catalysts are characterized by relatively high selectivities and yields (60% and 20%, respectively) and they produce oxyge- nates. However, there is no agreement in the literature as to the nature of the phase that gives the best catalytic performance (3537, 40), and it is likely that factors other than the crystalline structure of the vanadates, such as presence of small amounts of V2O5 or alkali metals, enrichment in either magnesium or vanadium, particle size, and so on, may have influence on catalytic activity.
Smits et al. (4143) investigated the VNbO system, which exhibits good pro- ductivity to propene and apparently does not yield any oxygenated products.
Selectivity to propene was as high as 90% for low conversions of propane and the catalyst operated at relatively low temperatures (6537238K).
Grzybowska et al. (4453) studied ODHP on the vanadia and molybdena based catalysts containing alkalis (K, Li, and Rb) and transition metals (Ni, Cr, V, Mo, and P) as promoters (4956). For the VMgO catalyst, an addition of redox elements led to an increase in activity and selectivity, while alkalis sig- nificantly decreased activity and increased selectivity. The effect of doping the active phase of the catalysts by alkalis on the catalytic performance in ODHP and ODHE was studied (43, 48). The effect of doping the support with altervalent ions (Ca2, Al3, Fe3, W6) and ofthe sequence of potassium introductioninto the VOx/TiO2 catalysts on the physicochemical and catalytic properties in ODHP was also studied (46, 50). The supports used for deposition of the vanadium or molyb- denum phase range from conventional carriers such as TiO2, SiO2, Al2O3, MgO,and molecular sieves (48) to highly porous structures of pillared interlayered clays (47). Isolation of vanadium ions (57, 58) inside the zeolite matrix leads to a catalyst with relatively high yields of propene. The tetrahedron structure of an isolated VO4 was proposed as the active site in the VAPO-5 catalyst.
Various metal molybdates were examined by Moro-oka et al. (5961).
Stern and Grasselli (62) investigated single and binary molybdates supported on silica (Co, Ni, Mn, Mg, and/or Zn), ternary molybdates Ni0.45Co0.45
X0.066MoO4 (where X  P, Bi, Fe, Cr, V, and Ce), and systems of the formula
Ni0.5Co0.5Y0.002MoO4 (where Y  K, Ca). The best performance was obtained for the NiMoO4/SiO2 and Ni0.5Co0.5MoO4/SiO2 catalysts. Generally, similarly to supported vanadia and molybdena catalysts, an addition of the redox elements led to an increase in activity but a decrease in selectivity. The addition of P did not affect the catalytic performance, while Bi and alkalis significantly decreased activity. Molybdena supported on various oxides (Nb2O5, TiO2, Al2O3, SiO2, MgO, ZrO2) was less selective than systems contain- ing supported vanadia, with the yield of propene for molybdena supported on TiO2, Al2O3, and MgO not exceeding 8% (63). Other systems studied for this
R. Grabowski
204 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013 reaction were NiMgAl spinels (64) and tungstates (65). A system containing NiO dispersed on CeO2 has been also found active and selective already at relatively low temperatures (44, 66, 67).
The ODH of n-butane (ODHB) is interesting as a novel, alternative, and direct way for styrene production. A characteristic feature of n-butane oxidation is the isomerization of olefins, which is favored by the presence of acid sites in additiontothe oxydehydrogenationand total oxidationsites.Mostofthe catalysts for ODHB are based on vanadium oxide, which can be supported on basic oxides such as MgO, Al2O3, or sepiolite, or used as a component in mixed oxide systems (2, 68). The ODH of n-butane on vanadia supported on MgO or MgAlO mixed oxides has been investigated (69). The results show that the higher acidic charac- ter of the catalyst, the lower selectivity to C4-olefins from n-butane. The VOx/ Al2O3 system (70) was investigated as a potential catalyst for this reaction, but the yield of the ODH products at 7238K was rather low (4.5%).
A review (71) by Lopez Nieto et al. shows that VMgO mixed oxides are the best catalysts for ODH of n-butane. The VMgO system, pure and doped with Mo alone or combination of Mo, W, Cr, and Fe, has been studied (70, 72).
It was shown that incorporation of additives favored selectivity and yield to the ODH products (especially butadiene).
4.
MECHANISM OF ODH OF ALKANES
Though the mechanisms of ODH reactions proposed by different authors differ from each other in some details and depend on the type of catalyst and alkane,some common features can be found.
On the basis of the literature data (9), the mechanisms for ODH of alkanes seem to involve the following characteristic steps:
1.
Interactions of alkane with the surface of the catalyst (weak/physical adsorption).
2.
Rupture of the CH bond leading to the formation of the alkyl species.
3.
Reaction of the alkyl species with an adjacent surface oxygen (b-elimin- ation) and formation of alkene.
4.
Cyclic reduction/reoxidation of the catalyst.The surface alkyl species can also form alkoxide (73, 74) species (a compet- ing pathway), which can be further oxidized to aldehydes and carboxylates and then to carbon oxides.
However, the detailed way in which alkenes interact with the catalyst surface depends on the type of catalyst and alkane (9, 68, 75, 76). For example, detailed mechanisms for the activation of butane and propane on Oxidative Dehydrogenation of C2-C3 Alkanes 205 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013 isolated VO4, which are characteristic of Mg3V2O8, VOx/SiO2, VAPO-5, and other catalysts, are different (69). It has been shown that for vanadium and molybdenum oxides, both monomeric (77, 78) and polymeric (65, 79) units can be considered as active in ODH of lower alkanes and that the V(Mo)-O terminal bond is not involved in the oxidation reactions. This supposition was confirmed by both the experimental rate of oxygen exchange in the oxygen labeled Me-18O and by the cluster model studies, performed by means of the ab initio DFT method to examine electronic properties of different surface O atoms in the V-O, V-O-P, and V-O-Mg systems and to correlate them with the catalytic performance. It was also shown that the terminal bond con- sidered earlier as active in selective oxidation had low activity (8082). The same method was also used to study catalytic properties such as reactivity of differently coordinated surface oxygen (82), effects of additives of vanadia- based catalysts for ODHP (83, 84), and energetics of the reoxidation process (85). Furthermore, it was shown (86) that the interaction of an organic molecule with various defects led to the cleavage of the C-H bond, which pro- ceeded by the transfer of two electrons to the empty vanadium surface levels and the formation of adsorbed alkoxy and surface hydroxyl species.
The coordination number of the active center also affects the path of the ODH reaction. For example, the coordination number of vanadium higher than four favors the insertion of oxygen into an alkane molecule and leads to the formation of partially oxygenated products or carbon oxides (57). The environment of the active center on which the dissociation of alkane proceeds may vary between several configurations. As has been shown (69),for the vanadium-based catalysts different types of vanadium species could be correlated with different behaviors of the catalysts. Strength and reducibil- ity of the bridging V-O-support oxygen ions play an important role, and the for- mation of the acid and/or basic centers depends on the nature of the support and, in the case of the doped catalysts, on the basicity of the additive. As a result, the rate of formation of the olefinic intermediate and the olefin desorption seem to depend on the acid-base character of the catalysts.
5.
KINETIC MODELS FOR OXIDATIVE DEHYDROGENATION
OF LIGHT ALKANES
As the basis for the development of rate equations, it is postulated that a gas- phase chemical reaction, when catalyzed by a solid, actually occurs on the surface of the catalyst and involves the reaction of molecules or atoms that are adsorbed by the active centers of the surface. In the heterogeneous gas- solid system, a catalytic reaction proceeds according to the following stages (87):
1.
Diffusion of the reactants towards the surface of the catalyst.
R. Grabowski
206 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013
2.
Adsorption of the reactants on the surface.
3.
Reaction on the surface.
4.
Desorption of the products from the surface.
5.
Diffusion of the reaction products from the catalyst surface.
It is evident that the rates of these five types of operations are dependent on different factors, in addition to the concentration or concentration gradients involved (88). Stages 1 and 5 are determined by, among other things, the flow characteristics of the system, such as mass velocity of the fluid stream,diffusional characteristics of the fluid and degree of porosity of the catalyst,dimensions of the pores, and the extent to which they are interconnected.
Stages 2 and 4 are determined by the character and extent of the catalytic surface and by specific activation energies required for the adsorption and des- orption of the components of the gas phase. Stage 3 is determined by the nature and extent of the catalytic surface and by the activation energies required for the reaction on the surface. If the second, third, and fourth stages are slower than the diffusion processes, a realistic kinetic description can be obtained,otherwise, the kinetic equations will describe the diffusion process. It means that kinetic constants will not be representative of the chemical reactivity of the system.
The main models used for the kinetic description of oxidative dehydrogena- tion of light alkanes are: 1) EleyRideal model, 2) LangmuirHinshelwood model, 3) rake model, 4) Mars Van Krevelen modelthe redox model, and the 5) power law model.
5.1.
Eley-Rideal Model According to the EleyRiedal (ER) model (89, 90), equilibrated adsorption of species A on the catalysts surface is assumed and next its subsequent reaction with molecules B provided by the gas phase.
Ag !
K
Aads 1 Aads  Bg
! k Cads
! Cg 2 Applying the Langmuir assumptions for the adsorption of A, taking partial order for B as one, and assuming a rapid desorption or low-coverage byproducts, the reaction rate is then expressed by r  kKpA pB 1  KpA 3 Oxidative Dehydrogenation of C2-C3 Alkanes 207 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013 or in the linearized form 1 r 1 kpB 1 1 KpA
4
5.2.
Langmuir-Hinshelwood Model This model (LH) is based on the findings of Langmuir (91). During the 1920s and 1930s, the kinetics used in the heterogeneous catalysis was based largely on the Langmuir lattice model of a surface consisting of non-interacting adsorption sites. These so-called Langmuir kinetics were developed by Hinshelwood (92). He reasoned that chemisorbed molecules remained on the surface for a longer time than molecules in close contact during collision in a homogenous phase; thus, the probability of attaining the required activation energy is higher on the surface of catalysts than for molecules that react in the homogenous phase.
This type of reaction can be schematically depicted by the following sequence of reactions Ag  Bg ! Aads  Bads 5 Aads  Bads
! Cads 6 Cads ! Cg 7 The Langmuir-Hinshelwood mathematical treatment is more difficult and starts from the assumption that all stages but one, the rate-determining step (e.g., the surface reaction), are very close to a thermodynamic equilibrium.
The concentrations of the components occurring in these equilibrium stages are interrelated by the conditions for the chemical equilibrium. Different rate-determining steps are possible.
For example:
1.
The rate is determined by the rate of the adsorption of A:r  kadsA  pA  1  uA  uB  uC 8 while the equilibrium conditions apply to the other stages and components KA  pA uB 1  uA  uB  uC 9 KC  pC uC 1  uA  uB  uC 10 KSurf:react uC uA  uB 11
R. Grabowski
208 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013
2.
The rate is determined by the rate of the surface reaction:r  k  uA  uB 12 uA KA pA 1  KA pA  KB pB  KC pC 13 and similar for uB and uC.
3.
The rate is determined by the rate of the desorption of product C:r  kdesC  uC 14 where ui are calculated from the Langmuir expressions and are interrelated by the equilibrium condition for the surface reactions. If all values of ui in the above equations are expressed in terms of pressures of the components,one can finally obtain the kinetic equation in the form:r  f pA; pB; pC; T; t 15 which can be done only for rather simple cases.
5.3.
Rake Model The process of oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) may be regarded as a set of reactions by which a molecule is gradually oxidized to the products of total oxidation. As a consequence, dehydrogenation products represent intermediate products in the series of consecutive reactions. The selectivity towards a certain product of ODH does depend on the ratio of the rate constant of the for- mation and the subsequent reaction of this product. Boutry and Montarnal (93) and Thomas et al. (94) advanced an idea that the consecutive reactions occur on the surface of the catalyst. This model was applied to the oxidation of butene to maleic anhydride (95).
Let A, B, and C be the reactants in the gaseous phase; uA, uB, and uC be the degrees of the surface coverage of the corresponding reactants in adsorbed phase; k1, k2, and k3 be the rate constants of the adsorption; k0 1, k0 2, and k0 3 be the rate constants for the desorption; and k1S and k2S be the rate constants for the surface reactions. Taking into account that the reaction orders with respect to the pressures of A, B, and C and to the concentrations of the adsorbed phases ui are 1 and assuming the presence of only one type of adsorp- tion site, one can write down equations for all surface coverages. kA pAuV  k0 1  k1SuA 17 k1uA  k2 pBuV  k0 2  k2SuB 18 k2SuB  k3 pCuV  k0 3uC 19 Oxidative Dehydrogenation of C2-C3 Alkanes 209 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013 where uV is fraction of the free adsorption sites and uA  uB  uC  uV  1 20 The system of Eqs. (17)(20) can be solved for ui and their values can be intro- duced in the differential equations for A, B, and C. dpA dt  k1  pA  uV  k0 1  uA 21 dpB dt  k2 pB  uV  k0 2  uB 22 dpC dt  k3 pC  uV  k0 3  uC 23 The system of differential Eqs. (21)(23) is usually solved numerically and the solutions are fitted to the experimental data, which allows one to determine rate constants kA, kB, and kC.
5.4.
Mars Van Krevelen ModelThe Redox Model The redox model was developed by Mars and Van Krevelen (MK) (96) for naphthalene oxidation. According to this model, oxygen for the reaction comes from the lattice of the catalyst and the reduced catalyst is then reoxi- dized by gaseous oxygen. These two steps can be represented schematically as follows:reduction of the oxidized catalyst hydrocarbon  oxidized catalyst
! products  reduced catalyst 24 oxidation of the reduced catalyst oxygen  reduced catalyst
! oxidized catalyst 25 In the stationary state, the oxidation rate of the catalyst is equal to its reduction rate. The stationary state is determined by the ratio of the rate constants of both reactions.
A steady-state adsorption model (SSAM), which can be regarded as a surface variant of the MK model, was developed by Downie et al. (97, 98) and applied also to describe kinetics of the vapor-phase oxidation of o-xylene over the vanadium oxide catalyst (99, 100). In this model, a steady state is assumed between the rate of adsorption of oxygen on the surface and the rate of removal of oxygen by the reaction with hydrocarbon from the gas phase. Some additional assumptions can be made in this model, such as 1) oxygen dissociates or 2) oxygen desorption is not negligible.
The ER, LH, and rake models describe the catalytic reaction, while the redox model concerns variations in the state of the catalyst. The ER and LH models are the concurrent models, while they are not concurrent with
R. Grabowski
210 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013 respect to the redox models (e.g., ER and SSAM), i.e., it is possible that reaction proceeds according to the ER-SSAM model.
5.5.
Power Law Model Due to the complex nature of catalytic reactions as well as lack of knowl- edge of the surface reactions, which are important for the mechanistic model,some simplifications must frequently be made in the description of the complete formal kinetics. A case in point is the power law (101, 102), which cor- relates the rate of the reaction with the partial pressures of the reactants. The power law assumes that the reaction rate may be expressed as r  k0  Pm A  Pn B  Ea=RT 26 where m and n are the reaction orders found experimentally and usually these exponents are not equal to the stoichiometric coefficients of A and B, respect- ively. The power law model is usually used as a first approximation in kinetic studies of catalytic reactions.
6.
KINETICS OF ODH OF ETHANE
Many papers have been devoted to the study of the catalytic properties of various materials used in ODHE, but few have considered the kinetic aspects of this reaction (103109). In the literature a parallel-consecutive reaction network has been most often used for the description of the experimen- tal data for ODHE.
On the basis of the catalytic data obtained for a large number of catalysts (103), the dependence of the selectivity to ethene on the conversion of ethane has been analyzed. Assuming that the reactions of both alkane and alkene are the first order in the hydrocarbon, the maximum yield of alkene of about 35% would be obtained when rate constants kA and kE have equal values Alkane
! kA alkene
! kE COx 27 Using this consecutive scheme [Eq. (27)] of the alkene formation, it was shown that at the reaction temperature of around 8738K, the rate constant of oxidation of ethene (kE) was comparable to the rate constant of oxidation of ethane (kA). However, for lower temperatures kE was higher than kA, and the selectivity lower.
There are only a few papers in which models for ODHE have been proposed (104, 107, 109, 110) (Table 1) and their quantitative verification carried out.
In Oyama et al. (104) (Table 1), the kinetic model and reaction network for the oxidation of ethane was proposed on the basis of the experimental data. The model was used to gain information on the contributions of particular reaction Oxidative Dehydrogenation of C2-C3 Alkanes 211 Downloaded by [Laurentian University] at 01:55 17 April 2013 Table 1: Kinetics of ODHEvanadia supported catalysts.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH), discussing the interplay between various catalysts (including bulk metal oxides and supported systems), the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms (such as C-H bond activation, M-alkyl intermediates, and 2H-abstraction). How do these factors collectively influence the process efficiency, and what role does site isolation play in addressing selectivity issues?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 