element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
Help
Search
My account
View PDF
Download full issue
Microporous and Mesoporous Materials
Volume 323
, August 2021, 111187
Hydrogen pre–reduction determined Co–silica interaction and performance of cobalt catalysts for propane dehydrogenation
Author links open overlay panel
Yating Gao
,
Lilin Peng
,
Jiangping Long
,
Yue Wu
,
Yihu Dai
,
Yanhui Yang
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2021.111187
Get rights and content
Highlights
•
Effect of hydrogen pre-reduction on Co@MCM-41-catalyzed propane dehydrogenation was studied.
•
Multi-stage migration of framework Co2+ to extra-framework Co0 species occurs in the pre-reduction.
•
Small-size Co0 cluster with moderate Co-silica interaction shows optimal catalytic performance.
•
Framework Co2+ ion with strong interaction with silica support shows low intrinsic activity.
•
Large Co particle with weak Co-silica interaction shows low propylene selectivity and severe coke issue.
Abstract
Co@MCM–41 catalysts with and without hydrogen pre–reduction treatments are prepared for catalyzing non–oxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) to propylene. Multi–stage migration of framework Co2+ into extra–framework Co0 species can be achieved by the pre–reduction. The location and chemical states of Co species in catalysts are related to the pre–reduction temperature and time duration. The catalysts reduced at 650–700 °C are consisting of both framework Co2+ ions and small–size Co0 nanoclusters confined in the MCM–41 channels, displaying 2–3 times higher reaction rates in the selective PDH reactions in comparison with the unreduced catalyst. A higher pre–reduction temperature of 750–800 °C causes the formation of large Co particles that are responsible for significantly declined reaction rates and propylene selectivity as well as severe coke deposition. Hydrogen pre–reduction tunes the interaction between Co species and silica support, determining the performances of propane activation, propylene desorption and coke formation for the Co–catalyzed PDH reactions.
Graphical abstract
Download: Download high-res image (227KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Previous article in issue
Next article in issue
Keywords
Propane dehydrogenationPropyleneCo catalystMCM–41Hydrogen pre–reduction
Loading...
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
© 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.