<quotes>

[1] "To date, many of the best catalytic performance of direct propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts are based on Cr6 and Pt.7 However, these catalysts are either costly and scarce, or detrimental, and these catalysts have been troubled by coking and cracking over the long term.8 Moreover, the direct propane dehydrogenation reaction has higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM)."
[2] "Therefore, it is highly desired to exploit a new direct propane dehydrogenation method at low temperature that can reduce energy consumption."
[3] "Herein, we develop a novel approach for direct propane dehydrogenation reaction at low temperature under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This work develops non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a novel microwave catalyst in propane direct dehydrogenation reaction for the first time, and thus opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant C3H8 resources at low temperature."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods have led to the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. However, the best catalytic performance of direct PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are either costly, scarce, or detrimental, and have been troubled by coking and cracking over the long term. Moreover, the direct propane dehydrogenation reaction has higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. A new direct propane dehydrogenation method at low temperature that can reduce energy consumption is highly desired. This work develops a novel approach for direct propane dehydrogenation reaction at low temperature under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), using non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a novel microwave catalyst, which opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant C3H8 resources at low temperature.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.工业对丙烯的需求日益增加，传统生产方法的局限性导致了丙烷脱氢（PDH）技术的发展。然而，基于Cr6和Pt的直接PDH催化剂的最佳催化性能要么成本高昂，要么稀缺，要么有害，并且长期受到焦化和裂解的困扰。此外，直接丙烷脱氢反应在常规反应模式（CRM）下具有更高的能耗。为了解决这些挑战，正在开发创新的催化剂设计策略，以克服失活问题，增强稳定性，并提高氧化性和非氧化性PDH过程中的可回收性。迫切需要开发一种在低温下进行的新型直接丙烷脱氢方法，以降低能耗。本工作开发了一种在低温下进行直接丙烷脱氢反应的新方法，采用微波催化反应模式（MCRM），使用非贵金属CoSn/NC催化剂作为新型微波催化剂，为在低温下高效利用丰富的C3H8资源开辟了新途径。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
