<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "We combine catalytic activity measurements with quantum chemical calculations to put forward a bold new hypothesis. We argue that the remarkable product distribution can be rationalized by a combination of surface-mediated formation of radicals over metastable sites, and their sequential propagation in the gas phase."
          [2] "The dynamic surface changes during ODH may benefit from computational investigations of metastable surface sites, beyond thermodynamically stable species such as BO3."
          [3] "Considering the possible radical pathways involved in hBN-catalyzed ODH, we aim to gain insight into the reactions that could take place both at the surface and in the gas phase."
          [4] "This readily explains why the catalyst shows no dehydrogenation activity and is only active for ODH."
          [5] "The radicals generated during the ODH reaction can terminate according to two pathways. First, in a radical-radical recombination. Or in a surface termination, with one predicted route."
          [6] "Our proposed reaction mechanism (simplified schematic depicted in Figure10) clearly highlights the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry as well as surface-mediated reactions in explaining catalyst performance."
          [7] "According to this simple model, propane is consumed in Reactions(14)(17), leading to the expression for the propane consumption."
          [8] "We conclude that optimal ODH catalysts should 1)generate reactive H-abstracting species that favor the abstraction of secondary CH bonds in propane, and 2)not interact strongly with intermediates and products to minimize fast consecutive surface oxidation steps."
          [9] "The combined surface and gas-phase reaction network reported herein provides a sound mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials."
          [10] "While upon first inspection the addition of a gas-phase may prove complex, we have shown that it is the gas-phase component itself that enables the outstanding product distribution observed with boron-based catalysts."
          [11] "This situation, where the surface initiates a free-radical gas-phase reaction, stands in sharp contrast with the mechanisms that have been proposed in the literature for vanadium-based catalysts."
          [12] "For the boron-initiated mechanism, a key role of the catalyst is to generate the reactive species (HOO. radicals) that activate the propane substrate in the gas phase, leading to fast radical propagation."
          [13] "A fraction of the propane reacts directly with the catalyst surface during chain initiation, playing a critical role in establishing the distribution of available propyl species in the gas phase."
          [14] "This reaction channel in turn lights off a gas-phase reaction and leads to the oxyfunctionalization of the BN surface under ODH conditions."
          [15] "We emphasize that heating BN in the presence of oxygen only does not result in surface oxidation, implying that the oxyfunctionalization goes hand-in-hand with the gas-phase radical chemistry."
          [16] "Our computational studies also highlight the complexity of this oxidation, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The multidimensional nature of the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, which encompasses both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contributes significantly to our understanding of the overall reaction network. The synergy between surface-mediated radical formation over metastable sites and their subsequent propagation in the gas phase explains the unique product distribution observed with boron-based catalysts. This understanding has implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, as it suggests that optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species favoring the abstraction of secondary CH bonds in propane and should not interact strongly with intermediates and products to minimize fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This insight guides the development of more selective catalysts by focusing on the generation of reactive species that favor secondary CH bond abstraction and minimizing interactions with intermediates and products. The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, which encompasses both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contributes significantly to our understanding of the overall reaction network. The combination of surface-mediated formation of radicals over metastable sites and their subsequent propagation in the gas phase explains the remarkable product distribution observed. This understanding is achieved through the integration of catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations, which allows for the exploration of dynamic surface changes during the reaction, beyond thermodynamically stable species. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions have implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, as they highlight the importance of generating reactive H-abstracting species that favor the abstraction of secondary CH bonds in propane, while minimizing strong interactions with intermediates and products to prevent fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. This knowledge can guide the development of more selective and efficient ODH catalysts. The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, which encompasses both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contributes significantly to our understanding of the overall reaction network. The synergistic effects of these reactions have profound implications for catalyst performance and design optimization. The surface of boron-based catalysts plays a critical role in generating reactive species, such as HOO. radicals, that activate propane in the gas phase, leading to fast radical propagation. This mechanism contrasts sharply with the proposed mechanisms for vanadium-based catalysts, where surface reactions predominate. The gas-phase component of the reaction network enables the outstanding product distribution observed with boron-based catalysts, highlighting the importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry. The oxyfunctionalization of the boron nitride (BN) surface under ODHP conditions is closely linked to the gas-phase radical chemistry, and the computational studies reveal the complexity of this oxidation, leading to a variety of boron species with different reactivities. Optimal ODHP catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species that favor the abstraction of secondary CH bonds in propane and not interact strongly with intermediates and products to minimize fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. These insights provide a sound mechanistic framework for future studies of boron-containing materials and reveal a general set of guidelines for the development of more selective catalysts. The multidimensional nature of the ODHP reaction mechanism over boron-based catalysts, which encompasses both surface and gas-phase radical reactions, contributes significantly to our understanding of the overall reaction network. The surface-mediated formation of radicals over metastable sites and their subsequent propagation in the gas phase are key factors in the remarkable product distribution observed. This understanding is achieved through the combination of catalytic activity measurements and quantum chemical calculations. The dynamic surface changes during the reaction benefit from computational investigations of metastable surface sites, beyond thermodynamically stable species. The importance of free-radical gas-phase chemistry and surface-mediated reactions in explaining catalyst performance is highlighted. The model suggests that propane is consumed in specific reactions, leading to a clear expression for propane consumption. Optimal ODH catalysts should generate reactive H-abstracting species that favor the abstraction of secondary CH bonds in propane and not interact strongly with intermediates and products to minimize fast consecutive surface oxidation steps. The synergistic effects of surface and gas-phase reactions have implications for catalyst performance and design optimization, as they can lead to enhanced selectivity and efficiency in the ODHP process.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          硼基催化剂上丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)反应机制的多维性质，包括表面和气相自由基反应，对理解整个反应网络有重大贡献。表面介导的在亚稳态位点形成自由基，随后在气相中传播，解释了硼基催化剂观察到的独特产物分布。这对催化剂性能和设计优化有影响，因为它表明最佳的ODH催化剂应该生成有利于丙烷中二级CH键抽氢的活性H-抽取物种，并且不应该与中间体和产物强烈相互作用，以最小化快速连续的表面氧化步骤。这一洞察通过专注于生成有利于二级CH键抽氢的活性物种，并最小化与中间体和产物的相互作用，指导了更选择性催化剂的开发。硼基催化剂上丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)反应机制的多维性质，包括表面和气相自由基反应，对理解整个反应网络有重大贡献。表面在亚稳态位点形成自由基并随后在气相中顺序传播的组合解释了观察到的显著产物分布。通过催化活性测量与量子化学计算的结合，我们能够探索反应过程中表面动态变化，超越热力学稳定物种。表面和气相反应的协同效应对于催化剂性能和设计优化有重要影响，因为它们强调了生成有利于丙烷中二次CH键抽氢的活性H-抽取物种的重要性，同时最小化与中间体和产物的强烈相互作用，以防止快速连续的表面氧化步骤。这些知识可以指导更选择性和高效ODH催化剂的开发。硼基催化剂上丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)反应机制的多维性质，包括表面和气相自由基反应，对理解整个反应网络有重大贡献。这些反应的协同效应对催化剂性能和设计优化有深远影响。硼基催化剂的表面在生成活性物种(如HOO.自由基)方面起着关键作用，这些物种在气相中激活丙烷，导致快速的自由基传播。这种机制与文献中提出的钒基催化剂的机制形成鲜明对比，后者以表面反应为主。气相反应网络的加入使硼基催化剂的产物分布异常出色，突出了自由基气相化学的重要性。在ODHP条件下，硼氮化物(BN)表面的氧功能化与气相自由基化学密切相关，计算研究表明这种氧化的复杂性，导致了具有不同反应性的多种硼物种。理想的ODHP催化剂应生成活性H-提取物种，有利于丙烷中二级CH键的提取，且与中间体和产物的相互作用不强，以最小化快速连续的表面氧化步骤。这些见解为未来硼材料的研究提供了一个坚实的机制框架，并揭示了一套用于开发更选择性催化剂的通用指导原则。硼基催化剂上丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)反应机制的多维性质，包括表面和气相自由基反应，对理解整个反应网络有重大贡献。表面介导的在亚稳态位点形成自由基及其随后在气相中的传播是观察到的显著产物分布的关键因素。这种理解是通过催化活性测量和量子化学计算的结合实现的。反应过程中动态表面变化得益于对亚稳态表面位点的计算研究，这超出了热力学稳定物种的范畴。自由基气相化学和表面介导反应的重要性在解释催化剂性能方面被突出。该模型表明，丙烷在特定反应中被消耗，导致丙烷消耗的清晰表达。理想的ODH催化剂应该产生反应性的H-抽取物种，有利于丙烷中二次CH键的抽取，并且与中间体和产物的相互作用不强，以最小化快速连续的表面氧化步骤。表面和气相反应的协同效应对于催化剂性能和设计优化有影响，因为它们可以导致ODHP过程中的选择性和效率提高。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
