<quotes>
To properly describe the kinetics of coke deposition on the catalyst leading to a decrease in the catalyst activity, it is important to include a kinetic expression for coke gasification which occurs in parallel with monolayer-multilayer coke formation. The following expression was used for the amount of gasified coke:
where k2G is the gasification rate constant and is described by the Arrhenius equation, KWG is the equilibrium constant for the first stage of gasification and nG is the dependency of the number of active sites for gasification on the catalyst coke content; its value was found to be close to 1/3. The interaction between coke formation and gasification leads to a dynamic equilibrium coke content on the catalyst.

The presence of steam in the reaction mixture leads to a continuous gasification of the deposited coke so that the experimentally measured rate of coke formation is a net rate resulting from both deposition and gasification.

The optimum kinetic parameters were obtained with RMS=6% and are reported in Table 4.

The predicted coke contents of the catalyst for different amounts of water added to the feed are presented in Fig. 2 for reaction temperature of 620 oC, indicating that the coke content would decrease with increasing amount of water added to the feed due to coke gasification and would increase with time-on-stream.

The model predicts that adding water as an oxygenated additive up to the optimum levels would improve propane conversion and reduce coke formation. The optimum amount of water was found to increase with increasing reaction temperature.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The presence of small amounts of water in the feed reduces coke deposition on the catalyst, thus reducing catalyst deactivation. However, addition of too much water results in extensive sintering, leading to a decrease in propane conversions. The optimum amount of water for maximum propane conversion increases with the reaction temperature. The coke formation is influenced by both deposition and gasification, with the latter occurring in parallel with the former. The model successfully predicts the optimal amount of water needed for maximum propane conversion and the coke content on the catalyst.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在催化剂表面沉积的小量水减少了焦炭的沉积，从而降低了催化剂的失活。然而，过多的水会导致严重的烧结，导致丙烷转化率下降。随着反应温度的增加，获得最大丙烷转化率的最佳水量会增加。焦炭形成受沉积和气化两者的共同影响，在前两者中发生。该模型成功预测了获得最大丙烷转化率所需的最佳水量以及催化剂上的焦炭含量。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
