<quotes>
Dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene and propane over Ga2O3ZrO2 catalysts in the presence of CO2 has been investigated and compared. Ga2O3ZrO2 catalysts exhibit different catalytic behavior for the two dehydrogenation reactions. 

Propene is an important raw material for the production of polypropene, polyacrylonitrile, acrolein and acrylic acid. The catalytic dehydrogenation of propane to propene is of increasing significance due to the growing demand for propene.

In order to understand the role of CO2 in the reaction, the amount of CO in the reaction product on 15GZ as a representative catalyst was measured. For EB dehydrogenation, the amount of CO formed is 1.5 as much as that of hydrocarbon products (styrene, benzene and toluene) after 30 min on stream. For propane dehydrogenation, the amount of CO formed is 2.8 as much as that of hydrocarbon products (propane, methane, ethane and ethene) after 10 min on stream.

In the absence of CO2, EB conversion and propane conversion over the 15GZ catalyst are 32.3% and 26.1%, respectively, lower than those in the presence of CO2. Therefore, one role of CO2 is to promote the dehydrogenation reaction through the reverse water-gas shift reaction. The other role of CO2 could be the elimination of coke by the Boudouard reaction.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
This research investigates the dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene and propane over Ga2O3ZrO2 catalysts in the presence of CO2. The catalysts show differing behaviors for these two reactions. The amount of CO generated in the reaction varies depending on whether the reactants are ethylbenzene or propane. The presence of CO2 plays a dual role: it enhances the dehydrogenation reaction through the reverse water-gas shift reaction and aids in coke removal through the Boudouard reaction.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
这项研究考察了在CO2存在的条件下，Ga2O3ZrO2催化剂对乙基苯和丙烷的脱氢反应。催化剂在两种反应中的行为不同。根据反应物是乙基苯还是丙烷，生成的CO量有所不同。CO2在此过程中扮演着双重角色：它通过逆向水煤气变换反应促进脱氢反应，并通过布杜瓦反应帮助去除焦炭。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
