Understanding and exploiting C–H bond
activation
Jay A. Labinger & John E. Bercaw
Arnold and Mabel Beckman Laboratories of Chemical Synthesis, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA
...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The selective transformation of ubiquitous but inert C–H bonds to other functional groups has far-reaching practical implications,
ranging from more efﬁcient strategies for ﬁne chemical synthesis to the replacement of current petrochemical feedstocks by less
expensive and more readily available alkanes. The past twenty years have seen many examples of C–H bond activation at
transition-metal centres, often under remarkably mild conditions and with high selectivity. Although proﬁtable practical
applications have not yet been developed, our understanding of how these organometallic reactions occur, and what their
inherent advantages and limitations for practical alkane conversion are, has progressed considerably. In fact, the recent
development of promising catalytic systems highlights the potential of organometallic chemistry for useful C–H bond activation
strategies that will ultimately allow us to exploit Earth’s alkane resources more efﬁciently and cleanly.
A
lkanes, or saturated hydrocarbons, are major constitu-
ents of natural gas and petroleum, but there are very few
practical processes for converting them directly to more
valuable products. The reason for this difﬁculty is
alluded to by their other name, ‘parafﬁn’ (meaning
‘not enough afﬁnity’): alkanes are relatively inert. This chemical
inertness arises from the constituent atoms of alkanes all being held
together by strong and localized C–C and C–H bonds, so that the
molecules have no empty orbitals of low energy or ﬁlled orbitals of
high energy that could readily participate in a chemical reaction, as
is the case with unsaturated hydrocarbons such as oleﬁns and
alkynes.
Alkanes do react at high temperatures, as encountered in com-
bustion, but such reactions are not readily controllable and usually
proceed to the thermodynamically stable and economically un-
attractive products, carbon dioxide and water. The currently preva-
lent use of alkanes in combustion applications exploits their energy
content, but not their considerable potential as valuable precursors
for more important and expensive chemicals. Although cracking
and thermal dehydrogenation convert alkanes to valuable oleﬁns,
these processes require high temperatures and are energy intensive.
Similarly, although alkanes can be induced to react by exposure to
highly reactive species such as superacids or free radicals, these
reactive species are usually demanding and expensive to make, and
offer little control over product selectivity.
A variety of enzymes efﬁciently and selectively catalyse alkane
oxidation at physiological temperatures and pressures, and the
direct use of biological organisms for industrial alkane conversion
under such benign conditions is possible in principle. But in
practice, these approaches may be primarily applicable to the
small-scale production of specialized chemicals, given that large-
scale bioprocesses for converting alkane resources seem to be
problematic1. However, despite their practical limitations, enzy-
matic alkane transformations are much studied, to understand the
underlying reaction mechanisms and guide the design of synthetic
catalysts mimicking the function, efﬁciency and selectivity of their
biological counterparts. Enzymatic and enzyme-mimetic alkane
transformations are beyond the scope of the present review, but
further information and bibliographies can be found in recent
reviews2,3.
Because it is difﬁcult to achieve selective transformations under
forcing conditions, most important petrochemicals, especially oxy-
genates such as alcohols, aldehydes and carboxylic acids, are
produced from unsaturated hydrocarbons. The primary unsatu-
rated starting materials are oleﬁns, in turn obtained from alkanes by
fairly inefﬁcient processes. Milder and better-controlled direct
conversions of alkanes into oleﬁns may thus offer large economic
beneﬁts. Alkane chemistry could also improve the utilization of
methane, the principal component of natural gas. Many of the
world’s established natural gas resource locations are remote, in sites
where there is little or no local demand, such as the north slope of
Alaska. Exploitation of such resources is impeded by the high cost of
both gas transportation and current methods for converting hydro-
carbon gas into more readily transportable liquid4. The available
conversion methods are indirect, involving production of synthesis
gas (carbon monoxide and hydrogen), followed by conversion to
the desired product. Developing efﬁcient strategies for the direct
conversion of methane to methanol or other liquid fuels or
chemicals could thus signiﬁcantly improve methane utilization.
The controlled activation of small, relatively inert molecules has
been a ubiquitous theme in transition metal chemistry since its
renaissance began in the late 1950s. Practitioners of this art are thus
well placed to address the alkane activation problem. To date,
binding to metal centres has resulted in altered and/or enhanced
reactivity in a variety of molecules, through associated changes in
the relative energies of their orbitals or their polarity. Oleﬁns and
carbon monoxide, for example, are rendered more susceptible to
nucleophilic attack upon coordination to a metal centre5, whereas
coordinated dioxygen frequently reacts with electrophiles6. Even
dinitrogen, the classic inert small molecule, can be thus activated
and induced to partake in chemical transformations7. In principle, it
should be possible to similarly activate the inert C–H bonds of
alkanes, but the examples just mentioned all involve small molecules
with lone electron pairs and/or p orbitals that can interact with
empty orbitals of the metal centres; alkanes possess neither of these.
Indeed, in most pre-1980s examples of C–H bonds reacting at
transition-metal centres, reactions proceed successfully only if they
are assisted through participation of the p orbitals of aromatic C–H
bonds8 (equation (1)) or involve intramolecular reactions, where
the group containing the C–H bond to be activated is already
attached to the metal9 (equation (2)). Often both effects contrib-
ute10 (equation (3)).
review article
NATURE | VOL 417 | 30 MAY 2002 | www.nature.com
507
© 2002 Nature Publishing Group
where hn implies light energy and D implies heat energy. Functional
groups are abbreviated as follows: Ph, phenyl; Et, ethyl; Me, methyl.
If such assistance were in fact required, activation of aliphatic C–
H bonds at transition-metal centres would not be a good strategy for
catalytic alkane conversion. However, during the 1970s, examples of
signiﬁcant interaction between a metal centre and an alkane C–H
bond suggested that this difﬁculty might have been overestimated.
For example, some metal complexes were known to catalyse alkane
reactions such as hydrogen–deuterium (H–D) exchange or oxi-
dation under relatively mild conditions11. Moreover, several cases of
so-called agostic bonding were discovered12, wherein a C–H bond of
an already coordinated ligand forms an additional bond to the metal
(see Fig. 1 for a typical example13).
These observations suggested that alkane activation should be
possible. In fact, chemists realized that previous failures to achieve it
might not have been due to unreactivity at all: C–H activation might
take place, but yield an organometallic product that is thermo-
dynamically unstable and thus undetectable14. This interpretation
proved to be correct. Using systems designed to produce stable
products, two groups demonstrated intermolecular alkane acti-
vation in 1982 (refs 15, 16) (one reaction is shown in equation
(4)), and a large number of other examples quickly followed. (Ref.
17 provides a thorough survey of these developments and further
references.)
H
Challenges for practical alkane conversion
Although the accomplishments of C–H activation mentioned so far
afford new organometallic derivatives, the development of practical
alkane conversion strategies poses further, and perhaps more
difﬁcult, challenges. One is activity, as only reactions proceeding
at an adequate rate will be useful. Another is selectivity, which is
challenging for two reasons. First, the desired product must not
have any functional group that reacts more readily with the metal
centre than the alkane starting material. In this regard, organome-
tallic activation appears promising: as strikingly illustrated by the
example in equation (5) an ‘inert’ C–H bond is activated by a metal-
centred reagent, even though the nearby epoxide linkage is far more
reactive under most conditions18.
where Cp* is pentamethylcyclopentadienyl.
A second and more general problem with achieving selectivity
arises from the relative reactivity of different C–H bonds. Most
existing transformations of alkane C–H bonds involve oxidation,
whether in the gas phase, over metal-oxide catalysts at high
temperature, or in solution. These reactions are dominated by
radical pathways involving hydrogen-atom removal; the reactivity
of such processes tends to correlate with C–H bond strength19. The
terminal positions of alkanes will therefore be the least reactive, yet
terminally functionalized alkanes are often the most desirable
products, as exempliﬁed by the role of terminal alcohols in deter-
gents. Furthermore, C–H bonds adjacent to functional groups in
oxidized products, such as alcohols and aldehydes, are more reactive
than the C–H bond of the original alkane; transformations of
alkanes proceeding via radical pathways will thus be subject to an
inherent upper limit on the product yield that can be obtained. The
relative reactivity for activating different C–H bonds is hence a
crucial issue.
Finally, thermodynamics presents perhaps the highest hurdle to a
net overall alkane conversion. Transformations such as dehydro-
genation (equation (6)) and carbonylation (equation (7)) should
readily be accomplished at centres that activate C–H bonds, but
both of these reactions are thermodynamically uphill anywhere near
room temperature. The addition of a C–H bond across an oleﬁn, as
in (equation (8)), is favourable, but serves only to produce another
alkane; such a transformation will generally be of little use. (In cases
where C–H activation is used to add arenes across a C–C multiple
bond20–22, the process can potentially yield valuable substituted
aromatic products.)
where R and R
0 indicate different alkyl groups.
The partial oxidation of alkanes to alcohols, aldehydes, acids and
other oxygenates is, in contrast to the above reactions, thermo-
dynamically favoured and also leads to highly desirable products.
However, many of the known C–H activating centres are highly
sensitive to O2 and other oxidants.
Can the demands of thermodynamics and chemical compatibil-
ity, along with activity and selectivity requirements, all be satisﬁed
simultaneously? To answer this question, we now consider the types
of C–H activation reactions at metal centres and their underlying
mechanisms.
Classiﬁcation of reactions
The scope of this review is limited to C–H activation at metal
centres, so we restrict our discussion to reactions that have clearly
been shown to involve bond formation between a metal and an
alkane carbon. The reactions are conveniently classiﬁed according
Figure 1 An example of agostic bonding. The electron pair of a b-C–H bond from a
coordinated ethyl group interacts with a vacant orbital on Ti (ref. 13).
review article
NATURE | VOL 417 | 30 MAY 2002 | www.nature.com
508
© 2002 Nature Publishing Group
to their overall stoichiometry. There are four classes involving the
formation of stable organometallic species, and two of these occur
quite commonly, while the other two are rare. The ﬁfth class of
activation reactions involves transient generation of organometallic
species as reaction intermediates.
Oxidative addition
Oxidative addition reactions are typical for electron-rich, low-
valent complexes of the ‘late’ transition metals found towards the
right side of the periodic table—Re, Fe, Ru, Os, Rh, Ir, Pt. In this
reaction type, illustrated in equation (9), the reactive species [LnMx]
is coordinatively unsaturated and hence almost always unstable; it is
therefore generated in situ by thermal or photochemical decompo-
sition of a suitable precursor. A typical precursor is (h5-C5Me5)-
(PMe3)IrIIIH2 (see equation (4)), which loses H2 under photo-
irradiation to give, as reactive species [LnMx], the (unobserved)
intermediate [(h5-C5Me5)(PMe3)IrI](ref. 15).
Sigma-bond metathesis
Alkyl or hydride complexes of ‘early’ transition metals with d0
electronic conﬁgurations may undergo the reversible reaction of
equation (10a) (refs 23, 24). These metals are most commonly
from group 3 of the periodic table (Sc, lanthanides and actinides),
but some examples involving metals of groups 4 and 5 are also
known25.
Most commonly R and R
0 are both alkyl groups, in which case the
reaction only amounts to the interchange of alkyl fragments, rather
than net alkane activation. The making and breaking of C–C single
bonds through the alternative exchange (equation (10b)) is unfor-
tunately not observed, whereas some examples of interconversion of
dihydrogen and metal alkyl with alkane and metal hydride
(equation (10c)) are known26,27.
Metalloradical activation
Rhodium(II) porphyrin complexes exist in a monomer–dimer
equilibrium and can reversibly break alkane C–H bonds, with
attachment of the two fragments to two separate rhodium(II)
porphyrin complexes (see equation (11)). Methane is the most
reactive hydrocarbon for this class of reaction. Regarding the
underlying mechanism, the involvement of free alkyl radicals,
generated through the abstraction of a hydrogen atom from
methane by the Rh centre, might at ﬁrst seem attractive. But the
low Rh–H bond strength (around 60 kcal mol21 compared to the
105 kcal mol21 C–H bond of methane) suggests that such a step
would be prohibitively endothermic, in agreement with inferences
from experimental observations28,29.
where (por) is porphyrin.
1,2-addition
1,2-addition reactions involve the addition of an alkane to a metal-
nonmetal double bond. An example of methane addition across a
Zr–N double bond (equation (12)) has been reported30, while a
related system activates benzene but not methane31. Although
alkane additions across M ¼ N and M ¼ C double bonds of other
early and middle transition-metal centres32–34 are also known, the
scope of this type of reaction and its potential for alkane functio-
nalization remain unclear.
Electrophilic activation
Certain reactions that lead directly to functionalized alkanes, rather
than observable organometallic species (although their partici-
pation as intermediates is strongly indicated), have been classiﬁed
as electrophilic activation reactions. This type of reaction is illus-
trated in equation (13) where [Mxþ2] is a late- or a post-transition
metal (Pd2þ, Pt2þ and/or Pt4þ, Hg2þ, Tl3þ), usually in a strongly
polar medium such as water or an anhydrous strong acid35. The
presumed organometallic intermediate [LnMxþ2(R)(X)] involved in
the transformation would be formed as indicated in equation (14a),
that is, through substitution of a metal for a proton—hence the term
‘electrophilic’ activation. Equation (14b) shows a possible route
from the intermediate to the product.
Alkane activation mechanisms
While most of our understanding of alkane activation mechanisms
has been obtained from studies of oxidative addition reactions, it
C
H
Figure 2 Possible structures of sigma complexes. a, The simplest structure, analogous to that observed in agostic complexes. b, A ‘dihapto’ structure with two coordinated C–H
bonds, suggested by theoretical calculations. c, A possible intermediate in a sigma-bond metathesis reaction. d, The proposed transition state (‡) for metalloradical C–H activation.
e, A possible intermediate in a 1,2-addition reaction.
review article
NATURE | VOL 417 | 30 MAY 2002 | www.nature.com
509
© 2002 Nature Publishing Group
seems likely that all C–H activations begin with the formation of an
intermediate alkane complex; the subsequent C–H bond cleavage
step will then differ from one class to another.
The initial interaction
The existence of stable agostic complexes with C–H bonds coordi-
nated to a metal centre (see above) suggested that C–H bond
activation might involve the initial formation of a so-called ‘sigma
complex’, in which a metal centre interacts with the electron pair
forming the C–H j-bond36. Direct analogy with agostic species
suggests that of the possible sigma-complex structures shown in
Fig. 2, structure a is the most probable one. However, theoretical
calculations and mechanistic considerations suggest a range of other
possible structures as well36. No stable sigma complexes have yet
been isolated, but a substantial body of evidence suggests that they
do exist.
For example, vibrational spectroscopic signatures detected both
in frozen matrices and in solution have been assigned to sigma
complexes generated by ﬂash photolysis of a metal carbonyl in the
presence of an alkane. In these experiments, typically only the C–O
stretching bands are detected and the assignment is thus not
conclusive. However, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) examin-
ation of the longest-lived of these suspected sigma complexes,
CpRe(CO)2(RH) (see also equation (15)), revealed a high-ﬁeld
signal characteristic of a C–H–M interaction37.
where Cp is (h5-C5H5).
The CpRe(CO)2(RH) sigma complex does not proceed to form a
stable C–H oxidative addition product, but vibrational spectro-
scopic evidence for the transient presence of sigma complexes has
also been obtained in true C–H activating systems. For example,
photolysis of Cp*Rh(CO)2 in a mixture of alkane and liquid inert
gas (xenon or krypton) yields two successive metastable intermedi-
ates. The ﬁrst intermediate is an inert gas complex, Cp*(CO)Rh(Kr
or
Xe),
followed
by
formation
of
the
alkane
complex
Cp*(CO)Rh(RH), which subsequently undergoes C–H bond clea-
vage to give the ﬁnal product (Fig. 3)38,39.
Isotope exchange has provided further evidence for the role of
metastable sigma complexes. The exchange process in equation
(16), for example, has been observed in over a dozen systems, and in
one case is fast even on the NMR timescale40.
Because it has been shown that complete loss of alkane from the
metal centre and subsequent re-addition does not take place36, the
exchange must proceed through an intermediate alkane complex, as
suggested in equation (17).
The reductive elimination of alkanes often also exhibits inverse
kinetic isotope effects; that is, the reaction is faster for M(D)(R)
than for M(H)(R). Such observations suggest that the reductive
elimination processes proceed through a late transition state that
involves dissociation of the alkane sigma complex after the C–H
bond (stronger than the M–H bond) has already formed.
Overall, even though alkane sigma complexes may remain
elusive, compelling evidence for their existence has been obtained.
In fact, the C–H–M interaction in these complexes is fairly strong
(of the order of about 5–10 kcal mol21)36, and sigma complexes
seem to be important intermediates (not merely transition states) in
C–H activation reactions.
Cleaving the C–H bond
Once an alkane complex has formed, the coordinated C–H bond
is cleaved to yield the product. In the case of oxidative addition
reactions (class 1), this step seems formally analogous to the
interconversion between dihydrides and dihydrogen complexes,
which is often extremely facile41. (This analogy is illustrated in
equation (18)). In terms of electron counting—the organome-
tallic chemist’s favourite predictive tool—there is no obvious
barrier to interconverting M(RH) with M(R)(H). However, as
illustrated in Fig. 4, the bond cleavage step may not be
straightforward because ligand dissociation often precedes ligand
interconversion, even when not required by electron count
considerations42.
For the other classes of C–H activation reactions, direct infor-
mation on the C–H bond cleavage mechanism is relatively sparse.
But theoretical and experimental43 ﬁndings suggest that sigma
bond metathesis reactions (class 2) and 1,2 addition reactions
(class 4) proceed through an intermediate sigma complex (pos-
sible structures are shown in Fig. 2 as c and e respectively), which
facilitate C–H cleavage by a 4-centre transition state. In the case of
metalloradical activation of methane by Rh(porphyrin) complexes
(class 3), the activation of a C–H bond seems to involve coordi-
nation to two metals, one to the C atom, the other to the H atom29
Figure 3 Pathway for oxidative addition of an alkane. The pathway has been inferred from time-resolved infrared spectroscopy observations38,39. After photolytic expulsion of a
carbonyl ligand from the organometallic complex, equilibrium between an inert gas complex and an alkane complex is rapidly established; the latter undergoes a slower C–H bond
cleavage to generate the ﬁnal product. nco, wavenumber.
review article
NATURE | VOL 417 | 30 MAY 2002 | www.nature.com
510
© 2002 Nature Publishing Group
(species d in Fig. 2 shows the proposed structure of this sigma
complex).
Reaction selectivity
Transition-metal centres preferentially activate terminal C–H
bonds, in contrast to the selectivity seen in radical C–H cleavages.
For example, the reaction shown in equation (19) gives 100%
primary alkyl for M ¼ Rh (ref. 44), and 70–80% (depending on
alkyl chain length) for M ¼ Ir (ref. 45).
The different reactivities of different alkane species undergoing
oxidative addition to a photolytically activated rhodium carbonyl
complex (the reaction shown in Fig. 3) suggest that less substituted
positions will be more reactive in the C–H bond activation step. But
the opposite trend seems to hold, at least in some cases, for the
sigma-complex formation step46. Thus the overall selectivity of
alkane activation reactions may well exhibit a complex dependence
on competing factors, with the preferences, relative rates and
reversibilities of individual steps all having the potential to exert
an inﬂuence.
Towards practical applications
Mechanistic insight into the fundamental processes and inter-
actions controlling alkane activation and conversion will guide
the development of catalysts that are compatible with thermodyn-
amic and economic constraints, yet exhibit the activity and selec-
tivity necessary for practical applications. Although systems suitable
for practical use have not yet been developed, several promising
examples point the way towards approaches that may well prove
successful.
Oxidation via electrophilic activation
Net alkane oxidation is often achieved through electrophilic acti-
vation (reaction class 5 above) by oxidation-tolerant complexes.
The earliest example is the platinum chemistry discovered by Shilov
and co-workers47 (equation (20)).
The reaction sequence for this system (Fig. 5) shows that
although the overall conversion is catalytic in Pt(II), it requires
stoichiometric amounts of Pt(IV) and is thus impractical. More-
over, the catalytic species are not indeﬁnitely stable in solution
under reaction conditions and eventually precipitate as metallic
platinum, owing in part to the fact that the Pt(II)–Pt(0) redox
potential is very close to that of the Pt(IV)–Pt(II) couple (ref. 48 and
references cited therein).
Despite its practical limitations, this system and model analogues
have revealed interesting and potentially useful features, including
nonradical selectivity patterns similar to those found in well-
characterized C–H activation systems. However, selectivities in
this system are generally not quite as high as in the model
analogues. For example, pentane is converted to n-pentyl chloride
with 56% terminal selectivity49; as noted earlier, oxidative addition
reactions typically achieve terminal selectivities of 70–100%. Etha-
nol oxidation by platinum complexes exhibits a particularly un-
usual selectivity pattern, with functionalization at the methyl group
yielding signiﬁcant amounts of ethylene glycol and 2-chloro-
ethanol50; virtually all other known oxidation methods oxidize the
alcohol function only. Ethylene glycol can even be obtained from
ethane by this route51.
Figure 4 Detailed mechanism of oxidative addition. The alkane complex formed rapidly after CO elimination does not lead directly to C–H bond cleavage. Instead one of the three
coordinated nitrogen centres of the Tp ligand dissociates on the picosecond timescale, generating a new intermediate. The subsequent C–H bond-breaking step occurs on the
nanosecond timescale, followed by rapid recoordination of the third nitrogen to form the ﬁnal product42.
Figure 5 Mechanism of methane oxidation in the Shilov system48. In step 1, Pt(II)
effectively replaces a proton to yield a methyl–Pt(II) complex. In step 2, [PtCl6]22
oxidizes the complex by electron transfer to a methyl–Pt(IV) species, which undergoes
nucleophilic attack at the C–Pt bond in step 3, liberating methanol and regenerating
the Pt(II) catalyst.
review article
NATURE | VOL 417 | 30 MAY 2002 | www.nature.com
511
© 2002 Nature Publishing Group
Another promising feature of the platinum chemistry is the fact
that the key oxidation step (the second step in Fig. 5) involves
electron transfer rather than alkyl-group transfer48. If oxidation had
required alkyl-group transfer, Pt(IV) would seem an obligatory
stoichiometric oxidant for the conversion, thus rendering the
overall process prohibitively expensive. Given that oxidation is
achieved through electron transfer, Pt(IV) could in principle be
replaced by a cheaper and more practical oxidant. Indeed, alkyl
groups made soluble in water as sulphonic acids have been oxidized
to alcohols using either electrochemical oxidation52, or O2 in
combination with heteropoly acids53 or copper salts54. In these
modiﬁed processes, the involvement of platinum is catalytic, but
so far only a modest number of turnovers has been achieved.
Similarly promising is successful C–H activation under very mild
conditions by ligand-substituted Pt(II) complexes55,56, generally of
the form [(N–N)Pt(CH3)(solv)]þ, where N–N is a bidentate nitro-
gen-centred ligand and ‘solv’ is a weakly coordinating solvent
(equation (21)).
where solv is NC5F5 or CF3CH2OH.
Moreover, platinum(II) complexes closely related to those
formed in equation (21) have been successfully oxidized by O2,
again under mild conditions (equation (22))57.
These ﬁndings, in combination, suggest that it might be possible
to develop a Pt(II) complex that is stabilized against reduction to Pt
metal by strongly bound ligands, and capable of activating alkanes
and catalysing their oxidation to alcohols by O2. Figure 6 outlines
the sequence of reaction steps involved in such a catalytic alkane
oxidation scheme. Although each individual step in this scheme has
been realized with at least one platinum complex, a single complex
accomplishing all four steps and capable of closing this catalytic
cycle has not yet been found.
Oxidation of methane by sulphuric acid
From a practical perspective, perhaps the most impressive accom-
plishment to date is the oxidation of methane to methyl bisulphate
by sulphuric acid, catalysed by a Pt(II) complex58. The reaction
appears to be an example of electrophilic functionalization, and the
proposed mechanism (Fig. 7a) is closely related to the chemistry
discussed above in ‘Oxidation via electrophilic activation’. In
addition, the organometallic complex used in this system is
remarkably stable under the reaction conditions used: the ligand
is not oxidized, and there is no platinum metal formation. The
absence of metal precipitation is a thermodynamic effect: the
combination of the chosen ligand and hot sulphuric acid can
dissolve platinum metal. A second improvement is the fact that
product can be obtained with up to 90% selectivity. This feature is in
part due to the protective power of the bisulphate group: to achieve
the observed yield, the relative reactivity of methane versus methyl
bisulphate must be of the order of 100:1.
However, the high selectivity achieved comes at a price: the
‘protected’ product is of little direct use and would need to be
separately converted to a more useful compound, such as methanol,
using a scheme such as that shown in Fig. 7b. At least at present,
such an integrated multistep process seems not to be economically
competitive with the currently used technology, the indirect con-
version of methane to methanol via synthesis gas.
 
Figure 7 The Catalytica system for methane oxidation58. a, Proposed mechanism for
oxidation of methane by sulphuric acid, catalysed by Pt(II), by analogy to the
mechanism of Fig. 5. b, A possible three-step sequence for methane conversion,
consisting of (1) oxidation of methane to methyl bisulphate as in a; (2) hydrolysis of
methyl bisulphate to methanol and sulphuric acid; (3) oxidation of SO2 produced in step
(1) back to sulphuric acid. The overall process accomplishes the selective oxidation of
methane to methanol by O2. Although all three steps are well established, it is not clear
whether the process is economically viable.
PtIV
Y
R
L
L
OH
OH
PtIV
Y
R
L
L
OH
OH
PtII
Y
OH
L
L
PtII
Y
OH
L
L
PtII
Y
X
L
L
PtII
Y
R
L
L
PtII
Y
X
L
L
PtII
Y
R
L
L
(demonstrated for X = CH3, Y = solvent,
and implicit in Shilov system)
+
 
O2
(demonstrated in MeOH for R=Y=CH3)
+ ROH + H2O
+ H2O
+ H2O
H2O
+ HX
+ HX
+ HX
+ RX
(demonstrated in several cases)
Overall:   RH +
1
2 O2
ROH
1
2
Figure 6 Hypothetical sequence for alkane oxidation to alcohol by O2 and catalysed by
a Pt(II) complex. The four individual steps—electrophilic activation of alkane at Pt(II),
oxidation of RPt(II) to RPt(IV) by O2, nucleophilic cleavage of the R–Pt bond to form ROH,
and ligand exchange to regenerate the original Pt(II) species—have all been
demonstrated in one or more cases, but a complex that effects all four steps has not yet
been developed.
review article
NATURE | VOL 417 | 30 MAY 2002 | www.nature.com
512
© 2002 Nature Publishing Group
Catalytic borylation of alkanes
If a metal-alkyl complex obtained through C–H activation could be
transformed according to equation (23) into a functionalized alkane
RX and a new ‘recyclable’ metal complex, in which the alkyl ligand
has been replaced by a ligand Y (this might be an oxygen-centred
ligand, or a halide), a useful process could be designed. But typically
the M–Y bond is very stable, thus precluding closure of a catalytic
cycle.
 
However, a ﬁrst example of successful evolution of stoichiometric
to catalytic functionalization using transition-metal boryl com-
plexes has been reported. Initially, photolysis of the metal boryl
complex Cp*W(CO)3(Bcat
0) (where cat
0 is 3,5-dimethylcatecho-
late) in the presence of alkanes RH was shown to produce RBcat
0 in
good yield, and with complete selectivity for terminal positions59.
The same products were then generated catalytically, using a
dimeric boron reagent such as (Bpin)2 (where pin is pinacolate)
and Cp*Re(CO)3 as catalyst60. Photolysis is still needed in this
system, but the photochemical energy input is not inherently
required to overcome unfavourable thermodynamics of the overall
reaction. Instead, the need simply reﬂects the difﬁculty in expelling
a carbonyl ligand from the metal complex to make a vacant site
available. Use of a more labile complex as catalyst should thus allow
the transformation under strictly thermal activation. Indeed, Rh(I)
oleﬁn complexes such as Cp*Rh(C2H4)2 or Cp*Rh(h4-C6Me6)
catalyse the reaction shown in equation (24), producing RBpin in
yields of up to 90% (based on (Bpin)2) and with the same total
terminal selectivity observed in the stoichiometric versions of the
reaction61. A related Ir-catalysed borylation of benzene has now also
been reported62.
 
The high selectivity and the versatility of the alkylboranes pre-
cursors offer many intriguing application possibilities. However, the
high cost of the borane reagents might preclude their use in large-
scale processes; in contrast, smaller-scale uses certainly seem
feasible.
Catalytic alkane dehydrogenation
As noted before, alkane dehydrogenation at low temperatures is
thermodynamically uphill, but this problem may be overcome by
providing a hydrogen acceptor to shift the equilibrium of the
reaction63. Examples of such catalytic ‘transfer dehydrogenation’
have been reported, but most of the catalysts used exhibit poor
thermal stability at the temperatures needed to achieve reasonable
reaction rates. A new class of catalyst, so-called ‘pincer’ complexes,
exhibit high thermal stability, making them useful for this trans-
formation (equation (25))64.
Ir
PR'2
PR'2
H
H
RCH2CH3  + tBuCH=CH2
RCH=CH2
tBuCH2CH3
150 °C
 + 
(25)
The most effective ‘pincer’ catalyst, with R
0 ¼ CHMe2, catalyses
the transfer dehydrogenation of cyclic and linear alkanes at 150 8C
using hydrogen acceptors such as norbornene or t-butylethylene, at
rates of up to 3–4 turnovers min21 (ref. 65). Of particular practical
interest is the initially high selectivity in converting linear alkanes to
terminal alkenes: at early stages, a-oleﬁn selectivities of more than
90% can be obtained. As the reaction proceeds, however, competing
isomerization causes a gradual shift in product selectivity to the
thermodynamically favoured internal oleﬁns.
The high thermal stability of the ‘pincer’ complexes even permits
dehydrogenation without use of an acceptor: reﬂuxing the catalyst
in a high-boiling alkane such as cyclooctane (boiling point 151 8C)
or cyclodecane (boiling point 201 8C) allows the liberated H2 to
escape and thus shifts the equilibrium of the reaction. This pro-
cedure gives the corresponding cycloalkenes; in the case of cyclo-
decane, product is formed at rates as high as nearly 8 turnovers
min21 (ref. 66). However, increasing concentrations of oleﬁn
product gradually inhibit the reaction. As a consequence, overall
reaction rates are lower than those of the corresponding transfer
dehydrogenations and isomerization becomes increasingly com-
petitive and even dominant, thereby suppressing selectivity for
terminal dehydrogenation.
The challenges ahead
The past twenty years have seen a substantial shift of focus and
thinking in the ﬁeld of C–H bond activation at metal centres.
Initially, much effort was aimed at elucidating whether alkane
activation at metal centres was at all possible, resulting in the
realization that this process is, in fact, easier than had been
anticipated. Attention then turned to investigating how these
reactions take place. Although much remains to be learned about
the processes and factors controlling the activity and selectivity of
catalytic alkane activation, considerable mechanistic insight has
been gained, particularly for oxidative addition reactions. The main
difﬁculty ahead now lies with using and increasing this knowledge
in order to develop practical processes that exploit alkane trans-
formation chemistry. Although it remains challenging to reconcile
the constraints inherent in alkane chemistry with thermodynamic,
economic and engineering requirements when trying to develop
such processes, the achievements to date promise that ongoing
research in this important ﬁeld will eventually allow us to harness
alkanes more directly, efﬁciently and cleanly.
A
1. Duetz, W. A., van Beilen, J. B. & Witholt, B. Using proteins in their natural environment: potential and
limitations of microbial whole-cell hydroxylations in applied biocatalysis. Curr. Opin. Biotech. 12,
419–425 (2001).
2. Ortiz de Montellano, P. R. (ed.) Cytochrome P450: Structure, Mechanism and Biochemistry 2nd edn
(Plenum, New York, 1995).
3. Brazeau, B. J. & Lipscomb, J. D. in Enzyme-Catalyzed Electron and Radical Transfer (ed. Holzenburg,
A.Scrutton, N. S.) 233–277 (Kluwer, New York, 2000).
4. Gradassi, M. J. & Green, N. W. Economics of natural gas conversion processes. Fuel Proc. Technol. 42,
65–83 (1995).
5. Collman, J. P., Hegedus, L. S., Norton, J. R. & Finke, R. G. Principles and Applications of
Organotransition Metal Chemistry Ch. 7, 2nd edn (Univ. Science, Mill Valley, 1987).
6. Sheldon, R. A. & Kochi, J. K. Metal-Catalyzed Oxidations of Organic Compounds Ch. 4 (Academic,
New York, 1981).
7. Fryzuk, M. D. & Johnson, S. A. The continuing story of dinitrogen activation. Coord. Chem. Rev. 200–
202, 379–409 (2000).
8. Green, M. L. H. & Knowles, P. J. Formation of a tungsten phenyl hydride derivative from benzene.
J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 1677 (1970).
9. Foley, P. & Whitesides, G. M. Thermal generation of bis(triethylphosphine)-3,3-
dimethylplatinacyclobutane from dineopentylbis(triethylphosphine)platinum(II). J. Am. Chem. Soc.
101, 2732–2733 (1979).
10. Bennett, M. A. & Milner, D. L. Chlorotris(triphenylphosphine)iridium(I): An example of hydrogen
transfer to a metal from a coordinated ligand. J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 581–582 (1967).
11. Shilov, A. E. & Shteinman, A. A. Activation of saturated hydrocarbons by metal complexes in solution.
Coord. Chem. Rev. 24, 97–143 (1977).
12. Brookhart, M. & Green, M. L. H. Carbon-hydrogen-transition metal bonds. J. Organometall. Chem.
250, 395–408 (1983).
13. Dawoodi, Z., Green, M. L. H., Mtetwa, V. S. B. & Prout, K. Evidence for a direct bonding interaction
between titanium and a beta-C-H moiety in a titanium-ethyl compound: X-ray crystal-structure of
[Ti(Me2PCH2CH2PMe2)EtCl3]. J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 802–803 (1982).
14. Halpern, J. Activation of carbon hydrogen-bonds by metal complexes: mechanistic, kinetic and
thermodynamic considerations. Inorg. Chim. Acta 100, 41–48 (1985).
15. Janowicz, A. H. & Bergman, R. G. C-H activation in completely saturated hydrocarbons: direct
observation of M þ R-H ! M(R)(H). J. Am. Chem. Soc. 104, 352–354 (1982).
16. Hoyano, J. K. & Graham, W. A. G. Oxidative addition of the carbon hydrogen-bonds of neopentane
and cyclohexane to a photochemically generated iridium(I) complex. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 104,
3723–3725 (1982).
review article
NATURE | VOL 417 | 30 MAY 2002 | www.nature.com
513
© 2002 Nature Publishing Group
17. Shilov, A. E. & Shul’pin, G. B. Activation and Catalytic Reactions of Saturated Hydrocarbons in the
Presence of Metal Complexes (Kluwer Academic, Dordrecht, 2000).
18. Wu, J. & Bergman, R. G. Conversion of epoxides to rhodium enolates: direct evidence for a
mechanism involving initial C-H activation. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 111, 7628–7630 (1989).
19. Russell, G. A. in Free Radicals (ed. Kochi, J. K.) 275–331 (Wiley, New York, 1973).
20. Jordan, R. F. & Taylor, D. F. Zirconium-catalyzed coupling of propene and alpha-picoline. J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 111, 778–779 (1989).
21. Jia, C. et al. Efﬁcient activation of aromatic C–H bonds for addition to C–C multiple bonds. Science
287, 1992–1995 (2000).
22. Matsumoto, T., Taube, D., Periana, R. A., Taube, H. & Yoshida, H. Anti-Markovnikov oleﬁn arylation
catalyzed by an iridium complex. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122, 7414–7415 (2000).
23. Watson, P. L. Methane exchange reactions of lanthanide and early transition metal methyl complexes.
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 105, 6491–6493 (1983).
24. Thompson, M. E. et al. “Sigma bond metathesis” for C-H bonds of hydrocarbons and Sc-R (R ¼ H,
alkyl, aryl) bonds of permethylscandocene derivatives. Evidence for the noninvolvement of the pi
system in electrophilic activation of aromatic and vinylic C-H bonds. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 109, 203–219
(1987).
25. Rothwell, I. P. Cyclometalation chemistry of aryl oxide ligation. Acc. Chem. Res. 21, 153–159 (1988).
26. Vidal, V., The
´olier, A., Thivolle-Cazat, J., Basset, J. M. & Corker, J. Synthesis, characterization, and
reactivity, in the C-H bond activation of cycloalkanes, of a silica-supported tantalum(III)
monohydride complex: (;SiO)2TaIII-H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 118, 4595–4602 (1996).
27. Niccolai, G. P. & Basset, J. M. Primary selectivity in the activation of the carbon-hydrogen bonds of
propane by silica supported zirconium hydride. Appl. Catal. A 146, 145–156 (1996).
28. Sherry, A. E. & Wayland, B. B. Metalloradical activation of methane. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 112, 1259–1261
(1990).
29. Wayland, B. B., Ba, S. & Sherry, A. E. Activation of methane and toluene by rhodium(II) porphyrin
complexes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 113, 5305–5311 (1991).
30. Cummins, C. C., Baxter, S. M. & Wolczanski, P. T. Methane and benzene activation via transient
(tBu3SiNH)2Zr ¼ NSitBu3. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 110, 8731–8733 (1988).
31. Walsh, P. J., Hollander, F. J. & Bergman, R. G. Generation, alkyne cycloaddition, arene C-H activation,
N-H activation, and dative ligand trapping reactions of the ﬁrst monomeric imidozirconocene
(Cp2Zr ¼ NR) complexes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 110, 8729–8731 (1988).
32. Bennett, J. L. & Wolczanski, P. T. Selectivities in hydrocarbon activation: kinetic and thermodynamic
investigationsof reversible 1,2-RH-elimination from(silox)2(tBu3SiNH)TiR(silox ¼ tBu3SiO). J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 119, 10696–10719 (1997).
33. Schafer, D. F. & Wolczanski, P. T. d0 alkane complexes (tBu3SiN ¼ )3W(RH) precede C-H activation
and formation of (tBu3SiN ¼ )2(tBu3SiNH)WR/R
0 . J. Am. Chem. Soc. 120, 4881–4882 (1998).
34. Tran, E. & Legzdins, P. Thermal alkane C–H bond activation by a tungsten alkylidene complex: the
reversal of a-hydrogen elimination. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 119, 5071–5072 (1997).
35. Stahl, S. S., Labinger, J. A. & Bercaw, J. E. Homogeneous oxidation of alkanes by electrophilic late
transition metals. Angew. Chem. Int. Edn Engl. 37, 2180–2192 (1998).
36. Hall, C. & Perutz, R. Transition metal alkane complexes. Chem. Rev. 96, 3125–3146 (1996).
37. Geftakis, S. & Ball, G. E. Direct observation of a transition metal alkane complex,
CpRe(CO)2(cyclopentane), using NMR spectroscopy. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 120, 9953–9954 (1998).
38. Weiller, B. H., Wasserman, E. P., Bergman, R. G., Moore, C. B. & Pimentel, G. C. Time-resolved IR
spectroscopy in liquid rare gases: direct rate measurement of an intermolecular alkane C-H oxidative
addition reaction. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 111, 8288–8290 (1989).
39. Bengali, A. A., Schultz, R. H., Moore, C. B. & Bergman, R. G. Activation of the C-H bonds in
neopentane and neopentane-d12 by (h5-(C5(CH3)5)Rh(CO)2: spectroscopic and temporal resolution
of rhodium–krypton and rhodium-alkane complex intermediates. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 116, 9585–9589
(1994).
40. Gross, C. L. & Girolami, G. S. Metal-alkane complexes. Rapid exchange of hydrogen atoms between
hydride and methyl ligands in [(C5Me5)Os(dmpm)(CH3)H]þ. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 120, 6605–6606
(1998).
41. Heinekey, D. M. & Oldham, W. Coordination chemistry of dihydrogen. Chem. Rev. 93, 913–926
(1993).
42. Bromberg, S. E. et al. The mechanism of a C-H bond activation reaction in room-temperature alkane
solution. Science 278, 260–263 (1997).
43. Thompson, M. E. et al. j-Bond metathesis for carbon-hydrogen bonds of hydrocarbons and Sc-R
(R ¼ H, alkyl, aryl) bonds of permethylscandocene derivatives. Evidence for noninvolvement of the p
system in electrophilic activation of aromatic and vinylic C-H bonds. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 109, 203–219
(1987).
44. Jones, W. D. & Feher, F. J. The mechanism and thermodynamics of alkane and arene carbon-hydrogen
bond activation in (C5Me5)Rb(PMe3)(R)H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 106, 1650–1663 (1984).
45. Janowicz, A. H. & Bergman, R. G. Activation of C–H bonds in saturated hydrocarbons on photolysis
of (h5-C5Me5)(PMe3)IrH2: relative rates of reaction of the intermediate with different types of C-H
bonds and functionalization of the metal-bound alkyl-groups. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 105, 3929–3939
(1983).
46. McNamara, B. K., Yeston, J. S., Bergman, R. G. & Moore, C. B. The effect of alkane structure on rates of
photoinduced C-H bond activation by Cp*Rh(CO)2 in liquid rare gas media: An infrared ﬂash
kinetics study. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 121, 6437–6443 (1999).
47. Shilov, A. E. & Shulpin, G. B. Activation and catalytic reactions of alkanes in solutions of metal
complexes. Russ. Chem. Rev. 56, 442–464 (1987).
48. Luinstra, G. A., Wang, L., Stahl, S. S., Labinger, J. A. & Bercaw, J. E. C-H activation by aqueous
platinum complexes: a mechanistic study. J. Organometall. Chem. 504, 75–91 (1995).
49. Shilov, A. E Activation of Saturated Hydrocarbons by Transition Metal Complexes (Reidel, Boston,
1984).
50. Labinger, J. A., Herring, A. M., Lyon, D. K., Luinstra, G. A., Bercaw, J. E., Horva
´th, I. & Eller, K.
Oxidation of hydrocarbons by aqueous platinum salts: mechanism and selectivity. Organometallics
12, 895–905 (1993).
51. Sen, A., Benvenuto, M. A., Lin, M., Hutson, A. C. & Basickes, N. Activation of methane and ethane and
their selective oxidation to the alcohols in protic media. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 116, 998–1003 (1994).
52. Freund, M. S., Labinger, J. A., Lewis, N. S. & Bercaw, J. E. Electrocatalytic functionalization of alkanes
using aqueous platinum salts. J. Mol. Catal. 87, L11–L16 (1994).
53. Geletti, Y. V. & Shilov, A. E. Catalytic oxidation of alkanes by molecular oxidation. Oxidation of
methane in the presence of platinum salts and heteropoly acids. Kinetics Catal. Engl. Trans. 24,
413–416 (1983).
54. Lin, M., Shen, C., Garcia-Zayas, E. A. & Sen, A. Catalytic Shilov chemistry: Platinum chloride-
catalyzed oxidation of terminal methyl groups by dioxygen. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 123, 1000–1001 (2001).
55. Holtcamp, M. W., Henling, L. M., Day, M. W., Labinger, J. A. & Bercaw, J. E. Intramolecular and
intermolecular C-H activation at a cationic platinum(II) center. Inorg. Chim. Acta 270, 467–478
(1998).
56. Johansson, L., Tilset, M., Labinger, J. A. & Bercaw, J. E. Mechanistic investigation of benzene C-H
activation at a cationic platinum(II) center. Direct observation of a platinum(II) benzene adduct.
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 122, 10846–10855 (1997).
57. Rostovtsev, V. V., Labinger, J. A., Bercaw, J. E., Lasseter, T. L. & Goldberg, K. I. Oxidation of
dimethylplatinum(II) complexes with dioxygen. Organometallics 17, 4530–4531 (1998).
58. Periana, R. A. et al. Platinum catalysts for the high-yield oxidation of methane to a methanol
derivative. Science 280, 560–564 (1998).
59. Waltz, K. M. & Hartwig, J. F. Selective functionalization of alkanes by transition-metal boryl
complexes. Science 277, 211–231 (1997).
60. Chen, H. Y. & Hartwig, J. F. Catalytic, regiospeciﬁc end-functionalization of alkanes: rhenium-
catalyzed borylation under photochemical conditions. Angew. Chem. Int. Edn Engl. 38, 3391–3393
(1999).
61. Chen, H., Schlecht, S., Semple, T. C. & Hartwig, J. F. Thermal, catalytic, regiospeciﬁc functionalization
of alkanes. Science 287, 1995–1997 (2000).
62. Iverson, C. N. & Smith, M. R. Stoichiometric and catalytic B–C bond formation from unactivated
hydrocarbons and boranes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 121, 7096–7097 (1999).
63. Crabtree, R. H., Mihelcic, J. M. & Quirk, J. M. Iridium complexes in alkane dehydrogenation. J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 101, 7738–7739 (1979).
64. Jensen, C. M. Iridium PCP pincer complexes: highly active and robust catalysts for novel
homogeneous aliphatic dehydrogenations. Chem. Commun. 2443–2449 (1999).
65. Liu, F. C., Pak, E. B., Singh, B., Jensen, C. M. & Goldman, A. S. Dehydrogenation of n-alkanes catalyzed
by iridium “pincer” complexes: regioselective formation of alpha-oleﬁns. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 121,
4086–4087 (1999).
66. Liu, F. C. & Goldman, A. S. Efﬁcient thermochemical alkane dehydrogenation and isomerization
catalyzed by an iridium pincer complex. Chem. Commun. 655–656 (1999).
Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to J.A.L.
(e-mail: jal@its.caltech.edu).
review article
NATURE | VOL 417 | 30 MAY 2002 | www.nature.com
514
© 2002 Nature Publishing Group
