i 
A
P
P
L
I
E
D
 
C
A
T
A
L
Y
S
I
S
 
A: GENERAL 
ELSEVIER 
Applied Catalysis 
A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
Structure and reactivity of surface vanadium oxide 
species on oxide supports 
Israel E. Wachs*, Bert M. Weckhuysen 1 
Zettlemoyer Center for Surface Studies, Department of Chemical Engineering, Lehigh University, Bethlehem 
PA 18015, USA 
Abstract 
Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, containing surface vanadia species on oxide supports, are 
extensively employed as catalysts for many hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. This paper discusses 
the current fundamental information available about the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia 
species on oxide supports: monolayer surface coverage, stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, 
oxidation state of the surface vanadia species, molecular structures of the surface vanadia species 
(as a function of environment 
and catalyst composition), acidity of the surface vanadia species and 
reactivity of the surface vanadia species. Comparison of the molecular structure and reactivity 
information provides new fundamental insights into the catalytic properties of surface vanadia 
species during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions: (1) the role of terminal V=O, bridging V-O-V and 
bridging V-O-support bonds, (2) the number of surface vanadia sites required, (3) the influence of 
metal oxide additives, (4) the influence of surface acidic and basic sites, (5) the influence of 
preparation methods and (6) the influence of the specific oxide support phase. The unique physical 
and chemical characteristics of supported vanadia catalysts, compared to other supported metal 
oxide catalysts, for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions are also discussed. 
Keywords: Supported 
vanadia 
catalysts; 
Surface 
vanadia 
species; 
Structure; 
Reactivity; 
Hydrocarbon 
oxidation 
1. Introduction 
Supported vanadium oxide catalysts contain a vanadia phase deposited on the 
surface of an oxide support (e.g., A1203, TiO2, SIO2, etc.). Characterization studies 
have revealed that the deposited vanadia phase consists of a two-dimensional 
surface vanadia overlayer as well as V205 crystallites above monolayer coverage 
* Corresponding 
author. Tel.: (+1-610) 
7584274; fax: (+1-610) 
7586555. 
~Current 
address: 
Centrum 
voor 
Oppervlaktechemie 
en Katalyse, 
K. U. Leuven, 
Kardinaal 
Mercierlaan 
92. B- 
3001 Heverlee, 
Belgium. 
0926-860X/97/$17.00 © 1997 
Elsevier 
Science 
B.V. All rights reserved. 
PI1 S0926-860X(97)00021-5 
68 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
[1-5]. In recent years, such supported vanadia catalysts have found wide com- 
mercial application as oxidation catalysts: selective oxidation of o-xylene to 
phthalic anhydride [6,7], ammoxidation of alkyl aromatics [8,9], selective catalytic 
reduction of NOx with NH3 [ 10] and controlling the oxidation of SO2 to SO3 during 
SCR [ 10-12]. In addition to these oxidation reactions, supported vanadia catalysts 
have also been investigated for the oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes to olefins 
[ 13], oxidation of butane to maleic anhydride [ 14-17], pentane oxidation to maleic 
anhydride [18] and the selective oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde [19] or 
methyl formate [20]. 
In spite of the importance of supported vanadia catalysts, many significant 
fundamental questions still remain unanswered about these oxidation catalysts (see 
extensive European catalysis community study appearing in a recent issue of 
Catalysis Today [2]): (1) monolayer coverage of the surface vanadia species, (2) 
stability of the surface vanadia monolayer, (3) oxidation state of the surface 
vanadia species after calcination, (4) the molecular structures of the surface 
vanadia species, (5) influence of different environments upon the molecular 
structures and oxidation state, (6) acidity of the surface vanadia species and (7) 
influence of the oxide support and metal oxide additives on the molecular 
structures and reactivity. Progress in the fundamental understanding of supported 
vanadia catalysts has primarily been hampered by (1) the use of oxide supports in 
many studies that contain significant amounts of impurities (e.g., P, K, etc.), (2) 
comparison of characterization studies of supported vanadia catalysts that have 
been performed under different conditions (e.g., ambient vs. in situ), and (3) the use 
of characterization techniques which are not always appropriate or optimum for the 
desired information. In order to minimize these potential complications, the 
present paper will primarily focus on well-defined model supported vanadium 
oxide catalysts that are free of impurities and where such additives, promoters and 
poisons, are only introduced into the catalysts in a controlled manner. The 
objective of this paper is to address the above fundamental issues about supported 
vanadia catalysts rather than to be a comprehensive literature review (see refer- 
ences [ 1-8] for more extensive literature reviews of supported vanadia catalysts). 
2. Monolayer surface coverage 
Monolayer surface coverage is defined as the maximum amount of amorphous or 
two-dimensional vanadia in contact with the oxide support. Monolayer surface 
coverage of the surface vanadia overlayer on oxide supports has been estimated 
from structural calculations [2,4] and experimental determinations [3,5]. From the 
V-O bond lengths of crystalline V205, monolayer surface coverage is estimated at 
10 VOx per nm 
2 for a bidimensional polyvanadate layer and at 2.5 VOx per nm 
2 for 
isolated monomeric vanadia units [2,4]. These calculations, however, assume that 
the molecular structure of the surface vanadia overlayer are similar to that present 
I.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
69 
in crystalline V205. As will be shown below, the surface vanadia overlayer on 
oxide supports does not possess the structure of crystalline V205 and, conse- 
quently, monolayer surface coverage determinations based on such structural 
calculations represent only a rough approximation. Monolayer surface coverage 
of the surface vanadia overlayer can be experimentally determined with several 
different characterization techniques that both physically (Raman, IR, XPS, solid 
state 51V NMR and UV-VIS DRS) and chemically (TPR, chemisorption and 
oxidation reactions) discriminate between the surface vanadia overlayer and the 
crystalline V205 phases [3]. The determination of monolayer surface coverage is 
significantly facilitated by the experimental observation that the completion of the 
monolayer precedes the formation of crystalline V205 [3]. Among these char- 
acterization methods, Raman spectroscopy has been found to be exceptionally 
sensitive to both the presence of the surface vanadia overlayer and the crystalline 
V205 phases. Monolayer surface coverage of the vanadia overlayer on different 
oxide supports was recently determined from Raman spectroscopy measurements 
and found to be approximately 7-8 VOx per nm 
2 [5,19]. The same monolayer 
surface VOx coverage was found for different oxide supports (A1203, 
TiO2, 
ZrO2, 
Nb205 and CeO2) 
with the exception of silica supported vanadia, which exhibited a 
maximum surface coverage of only 0.7 VOx per nm 
2. The much lower monolayer 
surface coverage on silica is due to the somewhat lower density and reactivity of 
the silica surface hydroxyls since the surface vanadia species titrate the oxide 
support hydroxyls upon anchoring to the support [5]. Certain preparation methods, 
however, can enhance the surface coverage of the surface vanadia species on silica 
[5]. These preparation methods involve the use of silica supports that possess a 
high surface concentration of hydroxyls [21], nonaqueous preparations involving 
reactive organometallic precursors [22,23] and electrochemical deposition of 
oxides in reduced oxidation states [24]. These preparation methods increase the 
surface vanadia coverage on silica to approximately 2-3 VOx per nm 
2 [21,25], 
which happens to correspond to the calculated surface density of isolated vanadate 
species. Furthermore, the monolayer surface coverage of the supported vanadia 
catalysts, ~7-8 VOx per nm 
2, is approximately twice as that found for other 
supported metal oxide catalysts (oxides of Mo, Cr, Nb, W and Re), and suggests the 
presence of a closed packed monolayer for the surface vanadia species [5]. 
The above experimental determinations of monolayer surface vanadia coverage 
were experimentally determined for well-defined model supported vanadia cat- 
alysts that did not possess surface impurities. However, many commercial oxide 
supports, especially pigment grade titania, possess significant amounts of surface 
impurities (typically monolayer quantities). These surface impurities (e.g., E K, 
Ca, Na, etc.) have a high affinity for vanadia and tend to readily complex with 
vanadia to form an amorphous phase [26]. In such impurity containing systems, the 
formation of crystalline V205 particles is delayed until the vanadia overlayer 
titrates the oxide support surface as well as the surface impurities. Consequently, it 
appears that the formation of several vanadia monolayers are required before the 
70 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
formation of crystalline V205 as was demonstrated by HR-TEM studies for 
pigment grade titania supported vanadia catalysts [27]. Thus, the apparent 
monolayer surface vanadia coverage on impurity containing oxide supports can 
be about 2-4 times greater than that found for the well-defined model supported 
vanadia catalysts. 
3. Stability of the surface vanadia monolayer 
The surface vanadia monolayer is stable after its initial formation on many 
typical oxide supports (A1203, TiO2, ZrO2, Nb205 and CeO2). The driving force for 
the stability of the surface vanadia monolayer is the lower free energy of this 
structural arrangement than the exposed high surface area oxide supports [28]. This 
driving force is so strong that the surface vanadia monolayer is spontaneously 
formed from thermal treatments of physical mixtures of the oxide support and 
crystalline V205 [28-30]. In the case of silica, the surface vanadia species will 
migrate to other oxide supports due to a repulsion between silica and vanadia and 
the strong driving force to form a stable monolayer on other oxide supports [31 ]. 
This repulsion between the surface vanadia species and silica is also responsible for 
the transformation of surface vanadia species on silica to large crystalline V205 
particles when small V205 crystallites are present [32]. The surface vanadia 
monolayer on oxide supports is also stable under reducing and reaction environ- 
ments. XPS measurements possess the same surface V/support cation ratio for both 
oxidized and hydrogen reduced catalysts reflecting no change in the dispersion of 
the surface vanadia overlayer upon reduction [33]. In situ Raman studies reveal that 
the surface vanadia monolayer is also stable and not converted to crystalline V205 
particles during oxidation reactions: methanol [34], methane [35], butane [36], 
butene [36] and SCR of NOx with NH3 [37,38]. The surface vanadia monolayer can 
be converted to crystalline V205 or vanadia species dissolved in the oxide support 
only after high temperature treatments that cause the collapse of the oxide support 
surface area, which reduces the number of available adsorption sites for the surface 
vanadia species [39]. In the case of V205/TiO2 (anatase) catalysts, high tempera- 
ture treatments also transform the TiO2 (anatase) phase to the TiO2 (rutile) phase 
that can accommodate dissolved V(4+) species in the rutile lattice [1,2,6,7]. The 
stability of the surface vanadia monolayers is reflected in the long life of such 
industrial oxidation catalysts [6--12]. 
4. Oxidation state of calcined surface vanadia monolayer 
There has been some discussion over the years about the oxidation state of the 
surface vanadia species in calcined supported vanadia catalysts [4]. Only V(5+) is 
observed in calcined supported vanadia catalysts by XPS, when the sample is not 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
71 
artificially reduced by the measuring conditions, and only traces of V(4+) are 
detected in EPR and UV-VIS DRS measurements. Furthermore, calcined sup- 
ported vanadia catalysts give rise to solid state 51V NMR signals which cannot be 
obtained for V(4+) species, and the presence of V(4+) species would also broaden 
the 51V NMR signal of the V(5+) species [21]. However, chemical titration of 
extracted vanadia by H2SO 
4 has suggested that the surface vanadia species in the 
monolayer are present as V(4+) [41]. Recent characterization of a standard 
supported vanadia catalyst, EUROCAT OXIDE vanadia-titania catalyst, has 
demonstrated that this chemical titration method may actually result in the 
reduction of the V(5+) species by sulfuric acid and that extreme care must be 
taken when employing this method since it may not lead to reproducible results [4]. 
Thus, calcined supported vanadia catalysts possess V(5+) species with only trace 
amounts of V(4+) species. 
5. Molecular structures of surface vanadia species 
The molecular structures of the surface vanadia species have been extensively 
investigated in the past few years with many different spectroscopies [3]: Raman 
[5,42], IR [5,43], XANES/EXAFS [44], solid state 51V NMR [21,45,46], UV-VIS 
DRS [47,48], chemiluminescence [49,50] and EPR [51]. These studies have 
revealed that the surface structures and oxidation states of the surface vanadia 
species are dynamic and are strongly dependent on the environment (oxidizing and 
reducing gases, moisture and temperature). Unfortunately, the dynamic nature of 
the surface vanadia species has resulted in some confusion in the published 
literature since many studies have compared measurements taken under different 
experimental conditions (in many cases even in the same study). In order to 
minimize such problems, the present paper will only focus on experimental results 
under well-defined environments. 
5.1. Dehydrated conditions 
Dehydrated conditions are created by heating the supported vanadia catalysts to 
elevated temperature, 300-700°C, in a flowing oxygen-containing stream that does 
not contain any reducing gases. Such a treatment desorbs adsorbed moisture from 
the catalyst surface and maintains the surface vanadia species in the V(5+) 
oxidation state [5]. 
5.1.1. VeOs/SiOe 
The dehydrated silica supported vanadia catalyst system has been characterized 
by all the molecular spectroscopies already mentioned above [3,5,42-51], with the 
exception of IR spectroscopy because of the overlap of the silica support IR 
absorption bands with the vibrations of the surface vanadia species [3]. There is 
72 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
unanimous agreement among all researchers that the surface vanadia species on 
silica consists of isolated VOx units containing one terminal V=O bond and three 
bridging V-O-Si bonds (trigonal pyramidal coordination). It is interesting that the 
maximum surface vanadia coverage achieved to date on silica, 2-3 VOx per nm 
2, 
corresponds to that expected for isolated surface VOx units [2,4,21,25]. Future 
studies will determine if this is just coincidental or the maximum surface coverage 
for isolated surface VO4 units in a monolayer. 
5.1.2. VeOs/(Ale03, 
7702, ZrOe, NbeOs and CeOe) 
The dehydrated surface vanadia species on other oxide supports all essentially 
possess identical molecular structures as probed by Raman [3,42,43], IR [3,43], 
and solid state 51V NMR [45,52]. These molecular structural studies suggest that 
the dehydrated surface vanadia species on these oxide supports are primarily 
present as isolated and polymerized VO4 units. The relative concentrations of 
isolated and polymerized surface vanadia species have not been quantified by the 
above Raman studies. Oxygen- 18 isotopic labeling experiments demonstrated that 
these surface vanadia species only possess one terminal V=O bond [37,53]. The 
molecular structures of these surface vanadia species are tentatively thought to 
consist of a terminal V=O bond and three bridging V-O-support bonds for the 
isolated species, and a terminal V=O bond with one bridging V-O-support and 
two bridging V-O-V bonds for the polymerized species. There may also be 
a minor amount of surface VO6 units (octahedral coordination) present at mono- 
layer coverages, but additional studies are required to establish this possibility 
[42,47]. 
5.1.3. V2Os/MgO 
Unlike the above supported vanadia catalysts, the magnesia supported vanadia 
catalyst system cannot form a complete close packed surface vanadia monolayer 
because of the acid-base reaction between acidic vanadia and basic magnesia [40]. 
The strong interaction between vanadia and magnesia results in the formation of a 
mixed metal oxide compound rather than a stable surface vanadia overlayer on the 
magnesia support [40,52]. The vanadia coordination in bulk V-Mg-O mixed metal 
oxide catalysts consists of VO4, VO5 and VO6 units. Thus, the magnesia supported 
vanadia catalyst system possesses both surface and bulk vanadia species. 
5.2. Oxygen~steam 
environments 
Moisture is usually present in many oxidation reactions as a component in the 
feed as well as a product of the reaction. The influence of oxygen/steam 
environments at elevated temperatures, 120-500°C, upon the dehydrated surface 
vanadia species was recently investigated with in situ Raman spectroscopy [54]. 
For the silica supported vanadia catalysts, moisture had no effect on the Raman 
spectrum reflecting the hydrophobic nature of the dehydroxylated silica surface. 
I.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
73 
For the other supported vanadia catalysts (V205 on A1203, TiOz, Nb205 and 
CeO2), the presence of flowing oxygen/steam had an effect on the surface vanadia 
species. Above 300°C, the surface vanadia species retained their molecular 
structures and the Raman band of the terminal V=O bond only shifted downward 
by several cm 
-1. The slight shift is due to hydrogen bonding of small amounts of 
moisture present on the surface at these elevated tempertures. Isotopic oxygen 
exchange experiments revealed that the reversibly adsorbed moisture is also able to 
rapidly undergo oxygen exchange with the terminal V=O bond at these high 
temperatures. At approximately 200°C and below, the Raman band of the terminal 
V=O bond significantly shifted downward due to monolayer quantities of adsorbed 
moisture. Thus, at these lower temperatures the surface vanadia species present in 
these supported vanadia catalysts become extensively solvated in the presence of 
moisture. 
5.3. Ambient conditions 
Ambient conditions corresponds to room temperature and ambient air. The 
ambient air contains moisture which readily adsorbs on the surface of the 
supported vanadia catalysts at room temperatures [3,5]. The amount of adsorbed 
moisture from ambient conditions corresponds to many monolayers-equivalent of 
water. Under these conditions the bridging V-O-support bonds are hydrolyzed by 
the moisture and the solvated surface vanadia species dissolve in the thin aqueous 
layer. These molecular structural transformations are readily monitored by Raman 
[5], solid state 51V NMR [21,45], XANES/EXAFS [44] and UV-VIS DRS [47]. 
The molecular structures of the solvated surface vanadia species are determined by 
the net pH of the aqueous thin film, which depends on the surface point of zero 
charge of the oxide support and the amount of the surface vanadia species. The 
molecular structures present under ambient conditions correspond to the typical 
vanadium oxide structures found in aqueous solution: orthovanadate (VO4), 
pyrovanadate (V207), metavanadate (VO3)n and decavanadate (V10068). The 
hydration-dehydration processes of the supported vanadia catalysts are completely 
reversible. 
5.4. Reducing environments 
Exposure of the surface vanadia (5+) species to reducing H2 and CO environ- 
ments results in the formation of surface vanadia (4+) and vanadia (3+) species 
[55-57]. The oxide supports (A1203, TiO2, ZrO2 and SiO2) are not reduced during 
the reduction of the surface vanadia species with the exception of CeO2, which 
exhibits the presence of minor amounts of reduced Ce(3+) [33]. The average 
oxidation states of the reduced surface vanadia species have been determined by 
temperature programmed reduction (TPR) and gravimetric measurements (pri- 
marily for alumina and silica catalysts) [55]. More specific information about the 
74 
I.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
distribution of oxidation states has been obtained with XPS and UV-VIS DRS 
studies [33,56]. However, there currently appears to be a lack of consensus among 
these publications as to the distribution of the V(4+) and V(3+) species. It is clear 
that a systematic series of studies are needed to quantify the influence of various 
parameters (reducing environment, surface vanadia coverage, specific oxide 
support, etc.) upon the distribution of the reduced surface vanadia (4+) and 
(3+) species in supported vanadia catalysts. 
Direct information about the molecular structures of the reduced surface vanadia 
species can be obtained from in situ EPR for isolated V(4+) [2,47,57], and UV- 
VIS DRS measurements for V(4+,3+) [47,56,57] and XANES/EXAFS for 
V(4+,3÷) (no known studies at this point). The published EPR studies have 
detected V(4÷) species in supported vanadia catalysts, but there does not appear to 
be any consensus about the structural assignments: distorted VO6, square-pyr- 
amidal VO5 or trigonal-pyramidal 
VO4 V(4+) species [57]. For the vanadia-titania 
system, Paganini et al. recently summarized the current status of the EPR 
literature: "A scrutiny of the EPR literature in the field indicates however that 
the values reported for the spectral parameters ... of V(IV) on TiO2 are rather 
spread. This is certainly due to the complexity of the system (heterogeneity 
of the 
surface with simultaneous presence of several species) but also to a certain 
approximation used sometimes to derive the parameters from the experimental 
spectra. The EPR spectra of V(IV) in fact are complicated by the high number of 
hyperfine levels ... and by the second order effects that tend to produce an 
asymmetric 
hyperfine structure with unequal separation of the various lines. In this 
situation the use of a computer simulation to correctly derive the parameters from 
the experimental spectra is needed but has been seldom used ...". Thus, more 
detailed EPR studies with well-defined model supported vanadia catalysts are 
required to reliably extract the fundamental coordination information about the 
reduced surface V(4+) species. The published UV-VIS DRS studies only report 
oxidation states and do not discuss the coordination of the reduced surface vanadia 
species [56,57]. Thus, dependable studies addressing the molecular structures of 
the reduced surface vanadia species are rare at present and a more systematic series 
of experiments are required to determine the influence of various variables 
(specific oxide support, specific reducing gas, steam, temperature, etc.). 
5.5. Hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments 
The influence of hydrocarbon oxidation reaction environments upon the oxida- 
tion states of the surface vanadia species in supported vanadia catalysts has been 
examined for several reactions with in situ Raman spectroscopy. During typical 
methane oxidation conditions, the surface vanadium oxide species is mostly 
present in the V(5+) oxidation state and possesses the same structure reported 
above for dehydrated conditions [35]. Even exposing the supported vanadia 
catalysts to a reducing methane stream in the absence of oxygen only slightly 
LE, Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
75 
reduces the surface vanadia species for V2Os]TiO2 and V205/CeO2, but no 
measurable reduction was detected for the surface vanadia species in the case 
of silica supported vanadia catalysts. The stability of the V(5÷) surface vanadia 
species during methane oxidation reflects the weak reducing power of methane 
compared to other hydrocarbons (see below). During butane oxidation to maleic 
anhydride and COx, the concentration of V(5+) surface vanadia species was partly 
decreased by the reaction environment, ~10-35% decrease in the Raman signal, 
for all supported vanadia catalysts with the exception of V205/SIO2 [36]. In the 
presence of a reducing butane stream in the absence of oxygen, the surface vanadia 
species on alumina was completely reduced reflecting the greater reducing power 
of butane compared to methane. The relative extent of reduction of the V(5+) 
surface vanadia species, at high surface coverages, during butane oxidation follows 
the pattern: TiO2>CeO2>ZrO2>AI203>SiO2. However, the surface vanadia cover- 
age was also found to be a critical variable since the polymerized surface vanadia 
species, which are more concentrated at higher surface concentrations, are more 
easily reduced than the isolated surface vanadia species. The surface vanadia 
species are more extensively reduced during butene oxidation than butane oxida- 
tion since even the surface vanadia species on silica was reduced during butene 
oxidation [36]. During methanol oxidation to formaldehyde, the reduction of the 
V(5+) surface vanadia species was more extensive, 30-60% decrease in the 
Raman signal, for all the supported vanadia catalysts with the exception of V205/ 
SiO2 [58]. In the case of silica supported vanadia, the surface vanadia species 
remained in the V(5+) oxidation state and formed stable vanadyl methoxy species 
[34]. The surface vanadia species could be completely reduced in a methanol 
stream in the absence of oxygen. Thus, the in situ Raman studies provide new 
insights into the behavior of surface vanadia species during hydrocarbon oxidation 
reactions: (1) the dehydrated V(5÷) surface vanadia species appears to be the 
predominant surface vanadia species, (2) the extent of reduction of the surface 
vanadia species depends on the reducing power of the hydrocarbon (methanol> 
butene>butane>methane), (3) the specific oxide support and (4) the ratio of 
polymerized to isolated surface vanadia species (polymerized>isolated). The 
greater stability of the V(5÷) silica supported vanadia species may be directly 
related to the fact that only isolated surface vanadia species are present in this 
catalyst. 
The in situ Raman studies, however, did not provide any molecular structural 
information about the reduced surface V(4+) or V(3+) species formed during the 
hydrocarbon oxidation reactions since no new Raman bands were observed 
[35,36,58]. It appears that the reduced V(4+) or V(3+) surface vanadia species 
in the supported vanadia catalysts do not give rise to strong and detectable Raman 
signals. Molecular structural information about the reduced surface vanadia 
species present under reaction conditions can be obtained from in situ UV-VIS 
DRS and EXAFS/XANES experiments, but such studies are currently not avail- 
able in the literature. Thus, our fundamental knowledge of supported vanadia 
76 
I.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
catalysts will be further advanced once information becomes available about the 
molecular structures of the in situ reduced surface vanadia species during hydro- 
carbon oxidation reactions. 
5.6. Influence of metal oxide additives 
5.6.1. Noninteracting additives 
Noninteracting additives are defined as surface metal oxides that preferentially 
coordinate with the oxide support rather than the surface vanadia species under 
dehydrated conditions. Typical noninteracting additives are surface oxides of W, 
Nb, S, Si, Mo, Ni, Co and Fe [59-62]. Consequently, the noninteracting additives 
can only indirectly affect the molecular structure of the surface vanadia species via 
lateral interactions. Such lateral interactions have been found to influence the ratio 
of polymerized to isolated surface vanadia species in supported metal oxide 
catalysts: Fe>Ni~Co>S>Mo~W>Nb>Si. In the case of silica supported vanadia 
catalysts, the addition of surface molybdena species did not alter the surface 
vanadia structure since only isolated surface vanadia species were present with and 
without the additive [35]. 
5.6.2. Interacting additives 
Interacting additives are defined as surface metal oxides that preferentially 
coordinate with the surface vanadia species rather than the oxide support under 
dehydrated conditions. Typical interacting additives are P and alkali/alkaline earth 
oxides (K, Na, Ca, etc.) that tend to complex with the acidic surface vanadia 
species [59,62]. The basic alkali/alkaline earth additives do not change the 
trigonal-pyramidal coordination of the dehydrated surface vanadia species, but 
do affect the V-O bond lengths by significantly increasing the terminal V=O bond 
length and, consequently, decreasing the bridging V-O bond lengths [52,59,62]. 
Thus, the basic surface additives do not form three-dimensional mixed vanadate 
compounds, but just alter the V-O bond lengths of the surface vanadia species. 
However, the interaction between P and the surface vanadia species can result in 
the formation of crystalline VOPO4 phases, at the expense of the surface vanadia 
phase, after calcination due to the strong interaction between these two oxides 
[14,59]. The formation of crystalline VOPO4 can only be avoided if the surface 
phosphorous oxide species is first anchored to the oxide support surface before the 
introduction of the vanadia precursor [59]. In the case of silica supported vanadia 
catalysts, the weak interaction between silica and the surface metal oxides and the 
significant mobility of the surface metal oxide species results in the formation of 
crystalline vanadate compounds for P as well as the alkali/alkaline earth additives 
independent of the order of introduction of the additives [14]. Thus, interacting 
additives can both modify the local structure of the surface vanadia species, 
affecting the V-O bond lengths, as well as form crystalline mixed metal oxide 
phases because of their chemical affinity for vanadia. 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
77 
5.6.3. Pigment 
grade oxide supports 
Pigment grade oxide supports, especially titania, contain monolayer quantities 
of surface impurities. For example, in the V2Os/TiO2 EUROCAT OXIDE catalyst 
study the presence of significant amounts of surface P, K, Nb, Si, Ca, Na, Fe and Cr 
were found in the catalysts [4]. These impurities typically arise from either the 
manufacturing processes employed to produce pigment grade titania or are added 
to passivate the surface photocatalytic activity of these materials [63]. Anatase 
pigments are generally precipitated from a sulfuric acid solution at relatively mild 
temperatures and surface additives such as P, K, Nb, Si, Ca and Na are added to 
suppress their surface photocatalytic activity. Rutile pigments are formed at very 
high temperatures from oxidation of TIC13 in the presence of small amounts of 
A1C13 and, consequently, their surfaces are usually covered by a significant amount 
of alumina as well as other impurities (C1 and Si). The presence of significant 
amounts of multiple surface impurities on such pigment grade titanias and the 
interactions among these impurities may create multiple surface vanadia species, 
which greatly complicates the molecular structural analysis. The V205/TiO2 
EUROCAT OXIDE catalyst studies employed pigment grade TiO2 (anatase) 
and were primarily characterized under ambient conditions where the samples 
are hydrated. The solid state 51V NMR measurements revealed that the hydrated 
surface vanadia species in the V205/YiO2 EUROCAT OXIDE catalysts were 
primarily present in an octahedral coordination as would be expected for a 
hydrated oxide surface possessing a net surface pH at point of zero charge of 
less than --~6 [3]. The coordination of the dehydrated surface vanadia species in the 
V205]TiO 
2 EUROCAT OXIDE catalysts was not determined with 51V NMR and in 
situ FT-Raman measurements revealed the presence of a terminal V=O bond, 
which may represent only a fraction of the total surface vanadia species present. 
Thus, the molecular structures of surface vanadia species in pigment grade TiO2, 
especially anatase, are still not well understood. 
5.7. Influence of preparation methods 
The influence of preparation methods upon the molecular structure of the 
hydrated and dehydrated surface vanadia species has also been examined 
[3,5,28,64,65]. Many different synthesis methods have been used in the prepara- 
tion of supported vanadia catalysts: vapor phase grafting with VOC13 [55,66], 
nonaqueous impregnation with vanadium alkoxides [ 
19,59] and vanadium acetate 
[67], aqueous impregnation of vanadium oxalate [68], as well as dry impregnation 
with crystalline V205 [28,65,69]. Commercial preparations usually employ aqu- 
eous impregnation with vanadium oxalate because of its high solubility in water 
and the absence of undesirable volatile organic solvents. However, some research- 
ers have claimed that certain preparations may result in superior catalytic proper- 
ties [66]. A series of titania supported vanadia catalysts were synthesized by the 
various preparation methods mentioned above and molecularly characterized with 
78 
I.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
Raman spectroscopy and solid state 51V NMR, both under ambient and dehydrated 
conditions [64]. All the catalysts were found to contain the same surface vanadia 
species independent of the initial synthesis method after equilibration of the 
catalysts after prolonged calcination. The absence of a "preparation memory 
effect" is due to the high mobility of V205 (Tamman temperature of 370°C) and 
the strong driving force of the mixed oxide system to lower its surface free energy 
by forming a monolayer of surface vanadia species, which possesses a low surface 
free energy, on the high surface free energy oxide support [28,65]. The formation 
of the monolayer is even observed during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions over 
physical mixtures of V205 and TiO2 [30]. Thus, the same thermodynamically 
stable surface metal oxide species are formed independent of the specific synthesis 
method. In the case of silica supported vanadia catalysts, where different pre- 
paration methods can affect the surface coverage of the surface vanadia species, the 
same isolated surface vanadia species results from all the different syntheses 
[21,25,42,44,48]. 
5.8. Influence of the specific structure of the oxide support 
The influence of the specific structure or modification of the oxide support upon 
the molecular structure of the dehydrated surface vanadia species on well-defined 
TiO2 supports (anatase, rutile, brookite and B) was investigated with solid state 
51V NMR and Raman spectroscopy [70]. The same dehydrated surface vanadia 
species, already discussed above in Section 5.1.2, were found to be present on all 
the different TiO2 modifications suggesting that there is no effect of long range 
order of the oxide substrate upon the local structure of the surface vanadia species. 
It may also be possible that the different oxide support surfaces restructure to the 
same equilibrated structure due to the strong interaction with the surface vanadia 
overlayer, but no fundamental information is currently available about the surface 
structures of typical oxide supports. However, many publications usually assume 
that the surface structures of oxides are just simple extensions of the bulk oxide 
structures without any direct knowledge. Fundamental surface science studies 
employing single crystal oxide supports should be able to provide some insight into 
this issue [71]. 
For pigment grade titania, it has been proposed in the literature that the surface 
vanadia phase possesses a different structure on TiO2 (anatase) and TiOa 
(rutile) [72]: an epitaxial V205 layer forms on anatase because of the crystal- 
lographic match of these two oxides, but not on ruffle because of the absence 
of a crystallographic fit. However, this early model neglected two critical issues 
(1) the oxide supports are in direct contact with an amorphous surface vanadia 
phase rather than crystalline V205 and (2) the pigment grade TiO2 anatase 
and rutile supports employed in the study were contaminated with monolayer 
levels of different surface impurities, which prevented direct contact between the 
oxide supports and the crystalline V205 particles. This study demonstrates why 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
79 
special care must be exercised when investigating pigment grade oxide support 
materials. 
5.9. Dissolved vanadia species 
In addition to the surface vanadia species discussed above, some studies have 
proposed that dissolved vanadia species may also coexist in the titania support 
when a surface vanadia monolayer is formed [73,74]. Electrical conductivity 
measurements have shown a significant increase in the electrical conductivity of 
TiO2 upon the addition of a surface vanadia monolayer [4,73]. The increase in 
electrical conductivity has been proposed to originate from the incorporation of 
isolated V(5+) species into the top layer of the titania support because a free 
electron is necessary to compensate for the V(5+) in the Ti(4+) matrix. However, 
no direct spectroscopic identification or molecular structural determination of such 
incorporated V(5+) species are available at present. Electrochemical reduction of 
aqueous vanadia in the presence of a single crystal of TiO2 (rutile) has shown the 
incorporation of several equivalent monolayers of V(4+) into the TiO2 (futile) 
matrix before the formation of a V(5+) monolayer [74]. This situation does not 
appear to occur to a great extent with TiO2 (rutile) powders employing con- 
ventional catalyst synthesis methods since a monolayer of surface vanadia 
V(5+) is readily formed upon calcination [70]. Centi et al. report that minor 
amounts of dissolved V(4+) species are present in VaOs/TiO2 (futile) catalysts, 
but not in VaOs/TiO2 (anatase) catalysts after o-xylene oxidation [74]. Several 
studies have also demonstrated that interstitial V(5+) species are present in V205/ 
TiOa (anatase) catalysts that are synthesized via coprecipitation of vanadia and 
titania salts [74]. However, conventional catalyst synthesis methods employ 
deposition of vanadia on a preformed titania support rather than coprecipitation 
and, consequently, should not contain dissolved V(5+) species. Additional direct 
spectroscopic information is needed about the quantity and structure of dissolved 
vanadia species in titania supports to fully understand these complex oxide 
systems. 
6. Acidity of surface vanadia species 
The oxide supports only possess surface Lewis acid sites and the relative strength 
of these sites is A12Oa>Nb2Os>TiO2>ZrO2, and no surface Lewis acid sites are 
detected for SiO2 [75]. In contrast to the oxide supports, unsupported V205 
crystalline powders possess both surface BrCnsted and surface Lewis acid sites 
[76]. The formation of the surface vanadia species on the oxide supports is 
accompanied by a decrease in the number of surface Lewis acid sites and an 
increase in the number of surface Br0nsted acid sites [75,77]. Only a very small 
fraction of the surface vanadia species are also surface BrCnsted acid sites since the 
80 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
concentration of surface BrCnsted acid sites, measured by pyridine adsorption, 
corresponds to only 5-10% of the surface vanadia species at monolayer coverage. 
The exact location of the surface BrCnsted acid sites is not clear at present since 
solid state 1H NMR studies cannot clearly discriminate between different locations 
due to similar NMR peak positions [78]. Several in situ IR studies have assigned an 
OH vibration for dehydrated titania supported vanadia catalysts to BrCnsted V-OH 
sites [79,80]. However, for well-defined model supported vanadia catalysts, 
without surface impurities, no OH vibrations are observed at monolayer coverage 
due to titration of the support surface hydroxyls by the surface vanadia overlayer 
[75,81]. The acidic characteristics of the surface vanadia overlayer are influenced 
by the specific oxide support ligand, but the molecular structural characterization 
studies above (see Section 3) reveal that the same dehydrated surface vanadia 
species are present on all the oxide supports (with the exception of silica). This 
suggests that the surface BrCnsted hydroxyls may be located as bridging V-OH- 
support sites, but no direct spectroscopic evidence is currently available to support 
any assignment for the location of the surface BrCnsted acid site. Reduction of the 
surface vanadia species removes the surface BrCnsted acid sites which are only 
present for the oxidized V(5÷) surface vanadia species [82]. Thus, probing surface 
acidity with reducing probe molecules will alter the surface BrCnsted acidity 
properties of the supported vanadia catalysts [4]. In contrast to the above supported 
vanadia catalysts, neither surface Br~nsted or surface Lewis acid sites are detected 
for surface vanadia species on SiO2 [37]. The absence of surface BrCnsted acid 
sites for surface vanadia species on silica is in agreement with the acidic properties 
of other well-dispersed oxides on silica [75], and suggests that the presence of 
surface BrVnsted acid sites occasionally reported for silica supported vanadia 
catalysts must be attributed to the presence of crystalline V205 particles or surface 
impurities. In summary, both the surface vanadia species and the crystalline V205 
particles possess surface BrCnsted acid sites, but surface vanadia species on SiO2 
do not possess surface Br~nsted acid sites. 
7. Reactivity of surface vanadia species 
The in situ characterization studies (Section 5.5) revealed that dehydrated 
surface vanadia species are present during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions 
and, consequently, the reactivity properties need to be related to the dehydrated 
surface vanadia species. According to the Mars-Van Krevelen redox mechanism, 
the oxidation of hydrocarbons proceeds by two steps: (1) the reactant hydrocarbon 
molecule initially reduces an oxidized surface site and (2) the reduced surface site 
is subsequently reoxidized with gas phase molecular oxygen [83]. Thus, the 
reactivity properties of the supported vanadia catalysts will be compared with 
the structural properties of the dehydrated surface V(5+) species rather than the 
dehydrated, reduced surface vanadia V(4+) and V(3+) species. 
I.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997)67-90 
81 
7.1. Reduction studies 
The reduction characteristics of supported vanadia catalysts have been inves- 
tigated with different probe molecules: hydrogen, butane, and ammonia. Among 
these reduction studies, reduction with hydrogen is most common. Hydrogen 
temperature programmed reduction (TPR) studies of supported vanadia catalysts 
have been reported from several different laboratories with very similar trends for 
the ease of reduction [2,19,84-86]: CeO2>ZrO2>TiO2>Al203>SiO2. These results 
suggest that the reduction of the surface vanadia species is strongly influenced by 
the specific oxide support since the same dehydrated surface vanadia species are 
present on all the supports with the exception of silica. The hydrogen TPR studies 
could generally not discriminate between the reduction characteristics of isolated 
and polymerized surface vanadia species because only one hydrogen TPR peak 
was observed in these studies. A recent high resolution TPR study did reveal the 
presence of two reduction peaks for the surface vanadia species which may reflect 
the coexistence of isolated and polymerized surface vanadia species [55]. In situ 
Raman studies during the reduction of V2Os/TiO2 catalysts revealed that both 
the isolated and polymerized surface vanadia species were about equally reduced 
by hydrogen [87]. In contrast, reduction with ammonia [88] or butane [89] 
exhibited preferential reduction of the polymerized surface vanadia species 
over the isolated surface vanadia species. The differences between hydrogen 
and ammonia or butane may be related to the stronger reducing properties of 
hydrogen which may not be very discriminating among the different surface 
vanadia sites. 
The influence of surface metal oxide additives, support phase and preparation 
methods upon the reduction of supported vanadia catalysts has also received some 
attention. The addition of noninteracting additives to supported vanadia catalysts 
(e.g., WO3 to V2Os/TiO2) slightly enhanced the reduction of the surface vanadia 
species [90]. The same effect is also observed when the surface metal oxide 
coverage is increased due to lateral interactions in the monolayer and the reduced 
number of surface hydroxyl groups [91 ]. The introduction of interacting surface 
additives such as K significantly retard the reduction of the surface vanadia species, 
but the introduction of surface P had only a slight effect on the reduction of the 
surface vanadia species [92]. Unfortunately, no characterization studies were 
performed on the P doped vanadia-titania catalyst to determine if this additive 
was interacting with the surface vanadia species. The reduction characteristics of 
the titania supported surface vanadia phase only varied slightly with the support 
type (TiO2(P-25), TiO2 (Eurotitania) and TiO2 (anatase, washed)) [93]. The slight 
variations in the reduction properties of the surface vanadia species were most 
probably associated with residual surface impurities present in the anatase and 
Eurotitania supports. Different precursors, VOC13 and Vo(OiBu)3 , were used to 
graft vanadia to titania supports, but the specific preparation method had essen- 
tially no effect on the reduction characteristics of the surface vanadia species [93]. 
82 
1.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
Thus, the reduction characteristics of the surface vanadia species are not sensitive 
to the specific preparation methods or the specific structure of the oxide support, 
but are very sensitive to the presence of surface metal oxide additives (especially 
interacting basic surface oxides). 
7.2. Hydrocarbon oxidation reactions 
The catalytic properties of well-defined model supported vanadia catalysts have 
recently been investigated for several different hydrocarbon oxidation reactions: 
methanol oxidation to formaldehyde, methane oxidation to formaldehyde, propane 
oxidative dehydrogenation 
to propene, butane oxidative dehydrogenation 
to butene 
and butane partial oxidation to maleic anhydride. The reactivity properties of these 
catalysts will be compared with the corresponding structural information 
presented 
above (see Section 5) in order to develop molecular structure-reactivity/selectivity 
relationships for supported vanadia catalysts during hydrocarbon oxidation reac- 
tions. 
7.2.1. Role of terminal V=O bonds 
The terminal V=O bonds have been proposed by many investigators to contain 
the critical oxygen involved in hydrocarbon oxidation reactions over supported 
vanadia catalysts [4]. However, the combination of in situ Raman and hydrocarbon 
oxidation reactivity studies have recently suggested that the reaction properties are 
not related to the characteristics of the terminal V=O bonds in supported vanadia 
catalysts. Butane oxidation over a series of supported vanadia catalysts was found 
to vary by over an order of magnitude in TOF, but identical V=O Raman features 
were observed for these catalysts [36]. A similar lack of correlation between the 
terminal V=O bond Raman characteristics and methanol oxidation TOF was also 
found for supported vanadia catalysts [19]. Furthermore, oxygen-18 labeling 
of the terminal V=O bond during butane oxidation revealed that this bond is 
very stable and has an exchange time that is approximately 20 times longer 
than the characteristic reaction time [36]. Consequently, the available data 
suggests that the terminal V=O bonds do not contain the critical oxygen that 
affects the reactivity of supported vanadia catalysts during hydrocarbon oxidation 
reactions. 
7.2.2. Role of bridging V-O-V bonds 
The surface concentration of bridging V-O-V bonds increases with surface 
vanadia coverage due to the increase in the ratio of polymerized to isolated surface 
vanadia species with the exception of V205]SiO 2 (see Section 5.1 above). The 
TOF for the oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde over VEO5frio2, as well as 
other supported vanadia catalysts, is independent of the surface vanadia coverage 
indicating that the oxygen associated with the bridging functionality does not 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
83 
critically affect this reaction [9]. Similarly, the TOF for the oxidative dehydro- 
genation of propane to propylene over V2Os/Nb2Os was not dependent on the 
concentration of the bridging V-O-V bonds [94]. For hydrocarbon oxidation 
reactions where the TOF increases with surface vanadia coverage it is not clear if 
this trend is due to an increase in the surface concentration of bridging V-O-V 
bonds or other factors (e.g., surface acidity, lateral interactions, number of active 
sites, etc.). The TOFs for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene 
and butane to butene over V2Os/A1203 were found to increase with surface vanadia 
coverage, by as much as an order of magnitude, suggesting that other factors may 
also play a role for alumina supported vanadia catalysts [13,95,96]. The TOF for 
the oxidation of butane to maleic anhydride over V2Os/TiO2 was also found to 
slightly increase, by a factor of 2-3, with surface vanadia coverage because of the 
requirement of several surface vanadia sites for this hydrocarbon oxidation 
reaction (see discussion below) [36]. Although the bridging V-O-V bonds do 
not appear to significantly influence many of the oxidation reactions, more 
systematic studies with well-defined model supported vanadia catalysts are 
required to fully understand the role of bridging V-O-V bonds in hydrocarbon 
oxidation reactions. 
7.2.3. Role of bridging V-O-support bonds 
The characteristics of the bridging V-O-support bond can be altered by varying 
the specific oxide support or oxide support ligands without changing the structure 
of the surface vanadia species (with the exception of silica). The bridging V-O- 
support bond appears to be associated with the critical oxygen required for 
hydrocarbon oxidation reactions since changing the specific oxide support dra- 
matically affects the TOF: approximately four orders of magnitude for methanol 
oxidation to formaldehyde [19] and two-orders of magnitude for butane oxidation 
to maleic anhydride [36]. The general trend appears to be CeOz>ZrO2~ 
TiO2>NbzOs>A12Os>SiO2, which inversely correlates with the Sanderson elec- 
tronegativity of the oxide support cations [97]. This suggests that bridging oxygens 
in V-O-support bonds that are more electronegative or basic, corresponding to 
oxide support cations with a lower electronegativity, 
are associated with the critical 
oxygen required for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions over supported vanadia 
catalysts. 
7.2.4. Number of surface vanadia sites 
Information about the number of critical surface vanadia sites required in 
hydrocarbon oxidation reactions can also be obtained by examination of the 
variation of the TOF with surface vanadia coverage. In general, reactions requiring 
only one surface site will exhibit a TOF that is independent of surface vanadia 
coverage. The invariance of the TOF for methanol oxidation to formaldehyde 
with 
surface vanadia coverage over supported vanadia catalysts suggests that only one 
surface vanadia site is required for this reaction. This observation is consistent with 
84 
I.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
IR studies that have shown that surface methoxy is coordinated to only a single 
surface vanadia site [98]. The oxidation of methane to formaldehyde over V205/ 
SiO2 catalysts also exhibits a constant TOF with surface vanadia coverage 
suggesting that only one surface vanadia site is involved with this reaction, and 
is consistent with the isolated nature of the surface vanadia species on silica [35]. 
The invariance of the TOF for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to 
propylene over V2Os/TiO2 as a function of surface vanadia coverage also suggests 
that only one surface vanadia site is required for this reaction [94]. An increase in 
the TOF with the surface vanadia coverage may reflect the requirement of multiple 
surface vanadia sites or the influence of other factors (e.g., surface acidity, 
influence of bridging V-O-V bonds, structural changes, etc.). Some of these 
other factors can be discriminated with the addition of metal oxide additives to the 
supported vanadia catalysts as discussed below. 
7.2.5. Influence of metal oxide additives 
Information about the number of surface sites required for hydrocarbon oxida- 
tion reactions can also be probed by the addition of noninteracting surface metal 
oxide additives. The addition of surface niobia is especially informative since it has 
a minimal effect on the surface vanadia structure, see Section 5.6 above, and its 
presence primarily increases the number of adjacent surface metal oxide sites for 
the surface vanadia species. The introduction of surface niobia species to V205/ 
Tit2 catalysts does not affect the TOF for methanol oxidation and is consistent 
with the above conclusion that only one surface vanadia site is required for this 
reaction [59]. In contrast, the addition of the surface niobia species to V2Os/TiO2 
catalysts increases the TOF for the oxidation of butane to maleic anhydride [36]. 
This increase in TOF reflects the requirement of multiple surface metal oxide sites 
for this hydrocarbon oxidation reaction. In contrast to noninteracting additives that 
mainly affect oxidation reactions requiring multiple surface sites, interacting 
additives affect all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions since they directly alter the 
structure and reactivity of the surface vanadia sites. As mentioned above (see 
Section 7.1), interacting additives and especially interacting basic surface oxides 
retard the reduction of surface vanadia species. Consequently, the TOFs for all 
hydrocarbon oxidation reactions are decreased when basic additives are intro- 
duced. The negative effect of the basic additives on the TOFs for methanol 
oxidation and propane oxidation over V2Os/TiO2 catalysts have been reported in 
the literature [59,99]. In the case of V205/SIO2, the situation is even more drastic 
since the basic metal oxide additives also convert the two-dimensional surface 
vanadia species to three-dimensional crystalline mixed metal oxide phases [100]. 
Interacting acidic additives such as P may have a different effect on various 
oxidation reactions. For methanol oxidation to formaldehyde, the presence of 
surface phosphate species slightly decreases the TOF [59]. However, for butane 
oxidation to maleic anhydride the presence of surface phosphate species increases 
the TOF [36]. 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
85 
7.2.6. Influence of surface acid and basic sites 
The surface vanadia species possesses both Lewis and BrCnsted acid properties 
and the ratio of BrCnsted acidity to Lewis acidity increases with surface vanadia 
coverage (see discussion above in Section 6). However, neither of these char- 
acteristics appear to influence the oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde 
[19] and the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene [94] over 
V2Os/TiO2 since these oxidation reactions exhibit the same behavior at all 
surface vanadia coverages. The oxidation of butane to maleic anhydride does 
show a slight enhancement in activity and selectivity with surface vanadia 
coverage, but this is mostly due to the requirement of multiple surface vanadia 
sites for this reaction rather than surface acidity properties [36]. The acidity and 
basicity of the noninteracting and interacting additives also affect the activity 
and selectivity properties of the surface vanadia species on titania during 
hydrocarbon oxidation reactions (see Section 7.2.5 above for their influence on 
activity). The surface niobia species, a noninteracting additive possessing Lewis 
acidity [75], has no effect on the selectivity of formaldehyde during methanol 
oxidation [59], but does have a positive effect on the maleic anhydride selectivity 
during butane oxidation [36]. The formaldehyde selectivity during methanol 
oxidation is slightly enhanced by the presence of basic interacting additives 
and decreased by the presence of acidic interacting additives [59]. The propylene 
selectivity during propane oxidative dehydrogenation is enhanced by the presence 
of basic interacting additives [99]. In contrast, the maleic anhydride selectivity 
during butane oxidation is enhanced by the presence of acidic interacting additives 
[36]. It is tempting to conclude from this limited data that the selectivity of 
oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde and 
propane to propylene, is enhanced by basic additives and that the selectivity of 
hydrogen abstraction-oxygen insertion reactions, butane oxidation to maleic 
anhydride, is enhanced by acidic additives. However, many more hydrocarbon 
oxidation reactions need to be examined before these observations can be general- 
ized. 
7.2.7. Influence of the specific structure of the oxide support 
Methanol oxidation over a series of V2Os/TiO2 catalysts possessing different 
titania structures (anatase, rutile, brookite and B) was recently investigated. The 
characterization studies, reported above in Section 5.8, demonstrated that the 
same surface vanadia species are present on the different titania support modi- 
fications. The reactivity of these supported vanadia catalysts was probed by 
methanol oxidation [70]. The methanol oxidation to formaldehyde studies revealed 
that essentially the same TOF was obtained for all the different V2Os]TiO 
2 
catalysts. A similar conclusion was reached for o-xylene oxidation over V205/ 
TiO2 catalysts containing anatase and rutile titania [101]. Thus, the specific 
structure of the oxide support does not appear to affect the reactivity of the 
surface vanadia species. 
86 
I.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
7.2.8. Dissolved vanadia species 
An increase in electrical conductivity of TiO2 is observed upon the addition 
of a surface vanadia monolayer to titania, see Section 5.9 above. This increase 
in electrical conductivity is attributed to the incorporation of isolated V(5+) 
species into the top layer of the titania support [73]. It has been hypothesized 
that this increase in electrical conductivity of vanadia-titania catalysts may 
influence their catalytic properties [4]. Comparison of the electrical con- 
ductivity properties and the corresponding methanol oxidation TOFs for a series 
of V2Os/TiO2 catalysts demonstrated that there is no relation between these two 
parameters [102]. The presence of significant amounts, monolayer quantities, of 
dissolved V(4+) species in V2Os/TiO2 (ruille) catalysts has also recently been 
proposed by Haber [73]. However, the methanol oxidation catalytic data exhibited 
similar TOFs for V2Os/TiO2 (futile) and the other titania modifications, see 
Section 7.2.7 above, which suggests that only a trace amount of dissolved 
V(4+) species may be present in such a catalyst during hydrocarbon oxidation 
reactions. 
8. Conclusions 
Supported vanadia catalysts possess unique properties among supported metal 
oxide catalysts. The surface density of the surface vanadia monolayer is typically 
about twice that of other supported metal oxide catalysts (e.g., oxides of Mo, Cr, 
Re, etc.) [103]. The higher surface density of surface vanadia species increases the 
number of catalytic active sites and minimizes unwanted side reactions from 
exposed oxide support sites [104]. The weak acidic character of bulk vanadia 
relative to other transition metal oxides (e.g., oxides of Mo, Cr, Re, etc.) may also 
minimize unwanted side reactions [76,105]. Furthermore, the reactivity per site, 
the TOE for the surface vanadia species in oxidation reactions is generally 
significantly greater than the corresponding TOF over supported molybdena 
and chromia catalysts [103,104]. As a result of these physical and chemical 
characteristics, supported vanadia catalysts tend to be among the most active and 
selective supported metal oxide catalysts for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. 
There has been significant progress in recent years in the determination of the 
molecular structures of the surface vanadia species present in supported metal 
oxide catalysts. Much has been learned about the structures of the surface V(5+) 
species. In contrast, there is still little known about the molecular structures of the 
reduced surface V(4+) and V(3+) species because these structures are more 
difficult to characterize. It is anticipated that much progress will also be seen in the 
near future in the determination of the molecular structures of the reduced surface 
vanadia species. More detailed molecular structural information is also anticipated 
from model single crystal studies employing surface science characterization 
techniques. 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
87 
Comparison of the surface vanadia molecular structural information with the 
corresponding reactivity/selectivity information has provided some insights 
into the reactivity properties of the surface vanadia species. The terminal V=O 
bond does not appear to critically influence the reactivity properties of the 
surface vanadia species during hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. The bridging 
V-O-V bond also does not affect many oxidation reactions, but for those reac- 
tions that may be influenced by this bridging bond the TOF may only increase 
by as much as an order of magnitude. The bridging V-O-support bond, how- 
ever, appears to be the most critical bond since its properties can change 
the TOF for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions by as much as four orders of 
magnitude. The specific phase of the oxide support as well as the specific 
preparation method do not appear to influence the molecular structure or reac- 
tivity of the surface vanadia species. The number of surface vanadia sites 
required for a hydrocarbon oxidation reaction is dependent on the specific reac- 
tant molecule. Oxidation reactions requiring only one surface vanadia sites are 
generally not sensitive to the surface vanadia coverage and the presence of 
noninteracting metal oxide additives. Oxidation reactions requiring multiple 
surface vanadia sites are very sensitive to surface vanadia coverage and the 
presence of noninteracting metal oxide additives. However, interacting additives 
influence all hydrocarbon oxidation reactions since they modify the surface 
vanadia sites. Acidic and basic additives also influence the selectivity of hydro- 
carbon oxidation reactions, but the effect appears to be reaction specific and cannot 
be generalized with the limited data currently available. Thus, the new funda- 
mental insights into the structure and reactivity of surface vanadia species on oxide 
supports is establishing a foundation for the molecular engineering of such 
catalysts for hydrocarbon oxidation reactions. These insights will also assist 
the development of a solid theoretical foundation for the area of hydrocarbon 
oxidation reactions. 
Pigment grade titanias possess monolayer quantities of impurities/metal oxide 
additives that greatly complicate the study of such oxide surfaces for supported 
vanadia catalysts [4]. Much more careful work is required to better understand the 
molecular structure-reactivity~selectivity properties of such industrially important 
hydrocarbon oxidation catalysts. It is especially important to distinguish between 
the findings of such complicated pigment grade supported vanadia catalysts and 
well-defined model supported vanadia catalysts in order to minimize the confusion 
in the literature. 
Acknowledgements 
The financial support of the Division of Basic Energy Sciences, Department of 
Energy (grant # DEFG02-93ER14350) is gratefully acknowledged by IEW. BMW 
wishes to acknowledge the National Fund of Scientific Research (NFWO) of 
88 
I.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
Belgium for a fellowship and a travel grant to visit the Zettlemoyer Center for 
Surface Studies (Lehigh University). 
References 
[1] EJ. Gellings, in: G.C. Bond, G. Webb (Eds.), Specialist Periodical Report - Catalysis, vol. 7, Royal 
Society of Chemistry, London, 1985, p. 105. 
[2] G.C. Bond, Appl. Catal., 71 (1991) 1. 
[3] G. Deo, I.E. Wachs and J. Haber, Critic. Rev. Surf. Chem., 4 (1994) 141. 
[4] G.C. Bond, J.C. Vedrine, Catal. Today (special issue) 20 (1994). 
[5] I.E. Wachs, Catal. Today, 27 (1996) 437. 
[6] M.S. Wainwright and N.R. Foster, Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng., 19 (1979) 211. 
[7] V. Nikolov, D. Klissurski and A. Anastasov, Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng., 33 (1991) 1. 
[8] E Cavalli, E Cavani, I. Manenti and E Trifiro, Catal. Today, 1 (1987) 245. 
[9] M. Sanati and A. Anderson, J. Mol. Catal., 59 (1990) 233. 
[10] H. Bosch and E Janssen, Catal. Today, 2 (1988) 369. 
[11] J. Svachula, L.J. Alemany, N. Ferlazzo, E Forzatti, E. Tronconi and E Bregani, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 32 
(1993) 826. 
[12] W.L Prins and Z.L. Nuninga, Catal. Today, 16 (1993) 187. 
[13] E.A. Mamedov, V. Cortes Corberan, Appl. Catal. A 127 (1995) 1; H.H. Kung, Adv. Catal. 40 (1994) 1. 
[14] W. Harding, K.E. Birkeland, H.H. Kung, Catal. Lett. 28 (1994) 1; L. Owens, H.H. Kung, J. Catal. 148 
(1994) 587. 
[15] A. Ramsetter and M. Baems, J. Catal., 109 (1988) 303. 
[16] N.T. Do and M. Baerns, Appl. Catal., 45 (1988) 1. 
[17] R.A. Overbeek, Ph.D. Thesis, Technical University of Utrecht, Netherlands, 1994. 
[18] EM. Michalakos, K. Birkeland and H.H. Kung, J. Catal., 158 (1996) 349. 
[19] G. Deo and I.E. Wachs, J. Catal., 146 (1994) 323. 
[20] E Forzatti, E. Tronconi, G. Busca and E Tittarelli, Catal. Today, 1 (1987) 209. 
[21] N. Das, H. Eckert, H. Hu, I.E. Wachs, J.E Walzer and EJ. Feher, J. Phys. Chem., 97 (1993) 8240. 
[22] Y. Iwasawa, Catal. Today, 18 (1993) 21. 
[23] R.D. Roark, S.D. Kohler, J.G. Ekerdt, Catal. Lett. 16 (1992) 71; R.D. Roark, S.D. Kohler, J.G. Ekerdt, 
D.S. Kim, I.E. Wachs, Catal. Lett. 16 (1992) 77. 
[24] E.T.C. Vogt, A. Boot, A.J. Dillen, J.W. Geus, EJ.J.G. Janssen, EM.G. van den Kerkhof, J. Catal. 114 
(1988) 313; M. De Boer, A.J. van Dillen, D.C. Koningsberger, J.W. Geus, M.A. Vuurman, I.E. Wachs, 
Catai. Lett. ll (1991) 227. 
[25] X. Gao, I.E. Wachs, in preparation. 
[26] G. Deo and I.E. Wachs, J. Catal., 146 (1994) 335. 
[27] M. Sanati, L.R. Wallenberg, A. Andersson, S. Jansen and Y. Tu, J. Catal., 132 (1991) 128. 
[28] H. Knozinger, E. Taglaner, Catalysis, 10 (1993) 1; G. Hausinger, H. Schmelz, H. Knozinger, Appl. Catal. 
39 (1988) 267. 
[29] J. Haber, Pure Appl. Chem., 56 (1984) 1663. 
[30] G. Centi, D. Pinelli and E Trifiro, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal., 67 (1990) 1. 
[31] J.-M. Jehng, I.E. Wachs, in preparation. 
[32] L. Owens and H.H. Kung, J. Catal., 144 (1993) 202. 
[33] M.A. Banares, X. Gao, I.E. Wachs, in preparation; S. Contakes, I.E. Wachs, in preparation. 
[34] J.-M. Jehng, H. Hu, X. Gao, I.E. Wachs, Catal. Today 28 (1996) 335. 
[35] Q. Sun, J.-M. Jehng, H. Hu, R.G. Herman, I.E. Wachs, K. Klier in: M.M. Bhasin, W.D. Slocum (Eds.), 
Methane and Alkane Conversion Chemistry, Plenum Press, New York, 1995, p. 219; Q. Sun, H. Hu, R.G. 
Herman, I.E. Wachs, K. Klier, J. Catal., 165 (1997) 91. 
[36] I.E. Wachs, J.-M. Jehng, G. Deo, B.M. Weckhuysen, V.V. Guliants, J.B. Benziger, Catal. Today 32 (1996) 
47. 
[37] I.E. Wachs, G. Deo, B.M. Weckhuysen, A. Andreini, M.A. Vuurman, M. De Boer and M.D. Amiridis, J. 
Catal., 161 (1996) 211. 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
89 
[38] G.T. Went, L.-J. Leu, R.R. Rosin and A.T. Bell, J. Catal., 134 (1992) 492. 
[39] I.E. Wachs, J.-M. Jehng, ED. Hardcastle, Solid State Ionics, 32/33 (1989) 904. 
[40] G. Deo, Ph.D. Thesis, Lehigh University, USA, 1992. 
[41] G. Centi, E. Giamello, D. Pinelli and F. Trifiro, J. Catal., 130 (1991) 220. 
[42] G.T. Went and S.T. Oyama, J. Phys. Chem., 94 (1990) 4240. 
[43] G. Busca, Mater. Chem. Phys. 19 (1988) 157; A.A. Davydov, Kinet. Katal. 34 (1993) 951. 
[44] T. Tanaka, H. Yamashita, R. Tsuchitani, T. Funabiki, S. Yoshida, J. Chem Soc., Faraday Trans. 84 (1) 
(1988) 2987; S. Yoshida, T. Tanaka, Y. Nishimura, H. Mizutani in: J. Phillips, M. Ternan (Eds.), 
Proceeding 9th International Congress Catalysis, vol. 3 (1988) 1473; S. Yoshida, T. Tanaka, T. Hanada, 
T. Hiraiwa, H. Kanai, Catal. Lett. 12 (1992) 277. 
[45] H. Eckert, I.E. Wachs, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 111 (1988) 455; H. Eckert, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. 
Chem. 93 (1989) 6796. 
[46] L.R. Le Costumer, B. Taouk, M. Le Meur, E. Payen, M. Guelton and J. Grimblot, J. Phys. Chem., 92 
(1988) 1230. 
[47] B.M. Weckhuysen, R.A. Schoonheydt, G. Deo, H. Hu, J.-M. Jehng, I.E. Wachs, Paper presented at 13th 
North Am. Catal. Soc. Meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, June (1995); B.M. Weckhuysen, I.P. Vannijvel, 
R.A. Schoonheydt, Zeolites 15 (1995) 482. 
[48] U. Scharf, M. Schraml-Marth, A. Wokaun and A. Baiker, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans., 87 (1991) 3299. 
[49] M.E Hazenkamp and G. Blasse, J. Phys. Chem., 96 (1992) 3442. 
[50] M. Anpo, M. Sunamoto and M. Che, J. Phys. Chem., 93 (1989) 1187. 
[51] G. Busca and E. Giamello, Mater. Chem. Phys., 25 (1990) 475. 
[52] J. Hanuza, B. Jezowska-Trzebiatowska, W. Oganowski, J. Mol. Catal. 29 (1985) 109; H. Eckert, G. Deo, 
I.E. Wachs, in preparation. 
[53] G. Ramis, C. Cristiani, P. Forzatti and G. Busca, J. Catal., 124 (1990) 574. 
[54] J.-M. Jehng, G. Deo, B.M. Weckhuysen and I.E. Wachs, J. Mol. Catal. A, 110 (1996) 41. 
[55] J. Haber, A. Kozlowska, R. Kozlowsi, J. Catal. 102 (1986) 52; M.M. Koranne, J.G Goodwin, Jr., G. 
Marcelin, J. Catal. 148 (1994) 369. 
[56] N.K. Nag, EE. Massoth, J. Catal. 124 (1990) 127; M.A. Eberhardt A. Proctor, M. Houalla, D.M. 
Hercules, J. Catal. 160 (1996) 27; M.L. Rojascervantes, A.J. Lopezpeinado, J.D. Lopezgonzales, E 
Carrascomailn, J. Mater. Sci. 31 (1996) 437; B. Jonson, B. Rebenstorf, R. Larrson, S.L.T. Andersson, J. 
Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 84 (1) (1988) 1897. 
[57] S. Yoshida, T. Iguchi, S. Ichida, K. Tarama, Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 45 (1972) 376; M. Inomata, K. Moil, 
A. Miyato, Y. Murakami, J. Phys. Chem. 87 (1983) 761; K.V.R.Chary, R.B. Mahipal, N.K. Nag, V.S. 
Subrahmanyam, C.S. Sumanda, J. Phys. Chem. 88 (1984) 2622; P. Fejes, I Marsi, I. Kirisci, J. Halasz, J. 
Hannus, A. Rockenbauer, G. Tasi, L. Korecz, G. Schobel, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal., 69 (1991) 173; P. 
Ciambelli, L. Lisi, G. Russo, J.C. Volta, Appl. Catal. B, 7 (1995) 1; M.C. Paganini, L. Dall'Acqua, E. 
Giamello, L. Lietti, P. Forzatti, G. Busca, J. Catal., 166 (1997) 195. 
[58] G. Deo, I.E. Wachs, in preparation. 
[59] G. Deo and I.E. Wachs, J. Catal., 146 (1994) 335. 
[60] M.A. Vuurman, D.J. Stufkens, A. Oskam, G. Deo, I.E. Wachs, J. Chem Soc., Faraday Trans. 92 (1996) 
3259; A. Andreini, M. De Boer, M.A. Vuurman, G. Deo, I.E. Wachs, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 92 
(1996) 3267. 
[61] M.A. Vuurman and I.E. Wachs, J. Mol. Catal., 77 (1992) 29. 
[62] G. Ramis, G. Busca and E Bregani, Catal. Lett., 18 (1993) 299. 
[63] K.I. Hadjiivanov, D.G. Klissurski, Chem. Soc. Rev. (1996) 61. 
[64] T. Machej, J. Haber, A.M. Turek and I.E. Wachs, Appl. Catal., 70 (1991) 115. 
[65] J. Haber, T. Machej, E.M. Serwicka and I.E. Wachs, Catal. Lett., 32 (1995) 101. 
[66] G.C. Bond and K. Bruckman, Faraday Disc. Chem. Soc., 72 (1981) 235. 
[67] A.J. van Hengstrum, J.G. van Ommen, H. Bosch and P.J. Gellings, Appl. Catal., 8 (1983) 369. 
[68] I.E. Wachs, R.Y. Saleh, S.S. Chan and C.C. Chersich, Appl. Catal., 15 (1985) 339. 
[69] J. Haber, J. Machej and T. Czeppe, Surf. Sci., 151 (1985) 301. 
[70] G. Deo, A.M. Turek, I.E. Wachs, T. Machej, J. Haber, N. Das, H. Eckert and A.M. Hirt, Appl. Catal. A, 
91 (1992) 27. 
[71] V. Heinrich, P. Cox, The Surface Science of Metal Oxides, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 
1994. 
90 
LE. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen/Applied Catalysis A: General 157 (1997) 67-90 
[72] A. Vejux and EJ. Courtine, J. Solid State Chem., 23 (1978) 93. 
[73] J. Haber and E Nowak, Langmuir, 2 (1995) 1024. 
[74] G. Centi, D. PineUi, E Trifiro, D. Ghoussoub, M. Guelton, L. Gengembre, J. Catal. 130 (1991) 238; G. 
Busca, E Tittarelli, E. Tronconi, E Forzatti, J. Sol. St. Chem. 67 (1987) 91; R. Gallay, J.J. Van der Klink, 
J. Moser, Phys. Rev. B 34 (1986) 3060; L.E. Briand, L. Cornaglia, J. Guida, H.J. Thomas, J. Mater. 
Chem. 5 (1995) 1443. 
[75] J. Datka, A.M. Turek, J.-M. Jehng and I.E. Wachs, J. Catal., 135 (1992) 186. 
[76] G. Busca, G. Ramis and V. Lorenzelli, J. Mol. Catal., 50 (1989) 231. 
[77] H. Miyata, K. Fuji and T. Ono, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans., 84(1) (1988) 3121. 
[78] V.M. Mastildain, A.V. Nosov, V.V. Terskikh, K.I. Zamaraev and I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem., 98 (1994) 
13621. 
[79] G. Busca, L. Marchetti, G. Centi, E Triftro, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 81 (1) (1985) 1003. 
[80] N.-Y. Topsoe, H. Topsoe, J.A. Dumesic, J. Catal. 151 (1995) 226 and 241. 
[81] D.S. Kim, I.E. Wachs, in preparation. 
[82] K. Segawa and W.K. Hall, J. Catal., 76 (1982) 133. 
[83] E Mars and D.W. van Krevelen, Chem. Eng. Sci., Suppl., 3 (1954) 41. 
[84] E Roozeboom, M.C. Mitelmeijer-Hazeleger, J.A. Moulijn, J. Medema, V.H.J. de Beer and RJ. Gellings, 
J. Phys. Chem., 84 (1980) 2783. 
[85] K. Kijenski, A. Balker, M. Glinski, R Dollenmeier and A. Wokaun, J. Catal., 101 (1986) 1. 
[86] J. Nickl, D. Dutroit, A. Balker, U. Scharf and A. Wokaun, Bet. Bunsenges. Phys. Chem., 97 (1993) 217. 
[87] G.T. Went, L.-J. Leu and A.T. Bell, J. Catal., 134 (1992) 479. 
[88] G.T. Went, L.-J. Leu, R.R. Rosin and A.T. Bell, J. Catal., 134 (1992) 492. 
[89] B.M. Weckhuysen, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. 100 (1996) 14437; B.M. Weckhuysen, J.-M. Jehng, I.E. 
Wachs, in preparation. 
[90] G. Allemany, N. Ferlazzo, P. Forzatti, L. Lietti, G. Busca, E. Giamello and E Bregani, J. Catal., 155 
(1995) 117. 
[91] M.A. Vuurman, I.E. Wachs, D.J. Stufkens and A. Oskam, J. Mol. Catal., 76 (1992) 263. 
[92] A.J. van Hengstrum, J. Pranger, J.G. van Ommen and EJ. Gellings, Appl. Catal., 11 (1984) 317. 
[93] G.C. Bond, J. Perez Zurita, S. Flamerz, P.J. Gellings, J.G. van Ommen and B.J. Kip, Appl. Catal., 22 
(1986) 361. 
[94] T.C. Watling, G. Deo, K. Seshan, I.E. Wachs and J.A. Lercher, Catal. Today, 28 (1996) 139. 
[95] J.G. Eon, R. Olier and J.C. Volta, J. Catal., 145 (1994) 318. 
[96] P.J. Andersen and H.H. Kung, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal., 75 (1993) 206. 
[97] R.T. Sanderson, Inorganic Chemistry, Chemical Bonds and Bond Energy, Academic Press, New York, 
1976. 
[98] G. Busca, A.S. Elmi and P. Forzatti, J. Phys. Chem., 91 (1987) 5263. 
[99] B. Grzybowska, P. Mekss, R. Grabowski, K. Wcislo, Y. Barbaux and L. Gengembre, Stud. Surf. Sci. 
Catal., 82 (1994) 151. 
[100] L. Owens and H.H. Kung, J. Catal., 148 (1994) 587. 
[101] G. Centi, D. Pinelli and E Trifiro, J. Mol. Catal., 59 (1990) 221. 
[102] J.M. Herrmann, J. Disdier, G. Deo, I.E. Wachs, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans., in press. 
[103] I.E. Wachs, G. Deo, M.A. Vuurman, H. Hu, D.S. Kim and J.-M. Jehng, J. Mol. Catal., 82 (1993) 443. 
[104] I.E. Wachs, G. Deo, J.-M. Jehng, D.S. Kim, H. Hu, in: B.K. Warren, S.T. Oyama (Eds.), Heterogeneous 
Hydrocarbon Oxidation, ACS Syrup. Ser. 638, American Chemical Society, Washington, DC, 1996, 
p. 292. 
[105] H.H. Kung, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 45 (1989). 
