Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane: Common Principles and Mechanistic Aspects
Graphical Abstract
A great suCCess: The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of ethane is a process that enables the production of ethene with high selectivities. Different catalysts and reactor configurations have been developed for this process. This Review focuses on the mechanistic aspects of heterogeneously catalyzed ODH reactions and the main features and common principles of this reaction are discussed.
Abstract
The increasing demand for light olefins and the changing nature of basic feedstock has stimulated substantial research activity into the development of new process routes. Steam cracking remains the most industrially relevant pathway, but other routes for light-olefin production have emerged. Fluid catalytic cracking only produces ethene in minor concentrations. Challenged by marked catalyst deactivation, in contrast, catalytic dehydrogenation ethane up opens a more selective route to ethene. The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of ethane, which couples the endothermic dehydration of ethane with the strongly exothermic oxidation of hydrogen, would potentially be the most attractive alternative route because it avoids the need for excessive internal heat input, but also consumes valuable hydrogen. In this Review, the current state of the ODH of ethane is compared with other routes for light-olefin production, with a focus on the catalyst and reactor system variants. New catalyst systems and reactor designs have been developed to improve the industrial competitiveness of the ODH reaction of ethane. The current state of our fundamental understanding of the ODH of light alkanes, in particular in terms of catalyst and reactor development, is critically reviewed. The proposed mechanisms and the nature of the active site for the ODH reaction are described and discussed in detail for selected promising catalysts. The reported catalytic performance and the possible limitations of these ODH catalysts will be examined and the performance of the emerging approaches is compared to the currently practiced methods.
1. Introduction
Ethene is one of the most important building blocks in the chemical industry. Among organic chemicals, ethene ranks first with respect to volume, with an annual worldwide production of 120×106 tons in 2008.4 Ethene is used to synthesize polymers, styrene, ethene oxide, vinyl chloride and vinyl acetate monomers, functionalized hydrocarbons (i.e., dichloroethane, ethylbenzene, acetaldehyde, and ethanol), and many other basic and intermediate products.
The direct activation and conversion of alkanes into chemicals results in more-complicated process schemes than those for the analogous processes that employ olefins.5 Nevertheless, the availability of alkanes, the increasing demand for olefins,6 and the necessity to minimize the negative environmental impact of a process7 has stimulated research into new directions.
Steam cracking, that is, high-temperature pyrolysis in the presence of diluting steam, is the most established industrial process for the manufacture of ethene. Typical feedstocks for this reaction are various grades of naphtha and components of natural gas. Different steam-cracking processes are known, depending on the length of the carbon chain in the feedstock. Although naphtha is the main feedstock for ethene production in Western Europe and Japan, natural-gas-derived feedstocks are mainly used in the United States and the Middle East. The lighter feedstocks consist of liquefied petroleum gas (that contains propane and different butanes) or ethane, propane, and butane, which originate from natural gas. For naphtha crackers, full-range naphtha (boiling point: 30–200 °C) or C6C8 cuts are typically used as feedstocks. In the Middle East, the feedstock basis has only shifted to ethane in the last decade, thus leading to attractive production costs.4 It should be mentioned in passing that the emerging availability of shale gas will markedly shift the overall picture towards processes that use light alkanes.
The recurring increase in the price of crude oil and, in particular, the availability of ethane in shale gas, has advanced the interest in alternative processes for ethene production, including the dehydration of ethanol (thus enabling the utilization of biomass-derived feeds) and the (oxidative) dehydrogenation of ethane. This latter process offers conceptual advantages and, therefore, has been the subject of substantial research activities. However, the lack of suitable catalysts that combine high activity and selectivity has prevented their industrial realization so far.
Several excellent reviews have broadly addressed ODH reactions.6–10 Because of the special role of the ODH of ethane and its potential process applications, we have decided to take a different approach. Therefore, this Review summarizes the current state of ethene production as a baseline for the potential and challenges that face the development of new processes. This Review also describes insight on the atomic and molecular levels, as well as into the ongoing developments in catalytic processes and reactor engineering.
2. Current Practice: Steam Cracking, Ethane Dehydrogenation and Ethanol Dehydration
2.1. Steam cracking
The steam cracking of hydrocarbons is the most widespread process for the industrial manufacture of ethene. Steam-diluted alkanes are converted at high temperatures (approximately 800 °C) in reactor tubes, thus leading to homogeneous pyrolysis. A wide variety of feeds with boiling points of up to 600 °C can be converted through a radical chain mechanism. Having been practiced for over 50 years, this process is now very mature. First, the feed is preheated with steam up to the initial cracking temperature (500–680 °C). Subsequently, the mixed stream is fed into a high-temperature reactor (750–875 °C) to complete the steam pyrolysis, with residence times of 0.1–0.5 s. Cracking furnaces are externally fired and the radiant tubes (or coils) have different arrangements (split coil or parallel millisecond pyrolysis).4 The feed is cracked into small olefins and di-olefins. Owing to the high reactivity of the products, the effluent has to be quenched within 0.02–0.1 s to avoid product degradation. The products are separated by a combination of distillation and absorption processes.
Steam cracking can be described by using complex kinetic models, which account for the progress of the ultrafast reactions in radical chemistry. Parameters that influence the performance and product distribution are residence time, the partial pressures of the feedstock and steam, and the process temperature (profile) in the reactor. Typical hydrocarbon-conversion levels reach 70 %,4 with olefin yields of around 50 % by using ethane as a feedstock, whereas single-pass conversion yields are lower in naphtha crackers.
Because the process operates at very high temperatures with high reactant streams, the requirements on the equipment are demanding. Suitable materials have to be heat-resistant, because temperatures up to 1100 °C are reached in the reaction tubes. Given the importance of heat management, the sophistication of the engineering of heat exchangers is crucial and involves great effort.
Although it is the industry standard for ethene production, steam cracking has disadvantages. It is a highly energy-intensive process; the total energy demand of the produced ethene is 16 GJ t−1 in the case of ethane as a feedstock and 23 GJ t−1 if naphtha is used as a feedstock.4 A part of the light effluent from the product gas stream has to be combusted to provide heat, thereby leading to the formation of CO2 and NOx. Per ton of ethene, 1–1.6 t CO2 are produced through this external heating.4 In addition, notable amounts of coke are formed on the inside reactor walls, thus requiring periodic reactor shut-down for maintenance and coke removal11 by air and steam gasification, because mechanical coke removal is not possible.
2.2. Dehydrogenation of ethane
The catalytic dehydrogenation of alkanes has been industrially applied since the 1930s. The strongly endothermic and equilibrium-limited process, [Eq. (1)], is performed in fixed-bed reactors.
(1)
Thermodynamic reasons make the use of high temperatures and low pressures mandatory.12 For instance, at atmospheric pressure, reaction temperatures of 550 °C and 700 °C are required to reach ethane equilibrium conversions of 10 % and 40 %, respectively. High pressures shift the equilibrium toward ethane.
Typical catalysts are based on Cr (i.e., chromiaalumina) or Pt.12, 13 The major challenges are the suppression of side reactions and the formation of a suitable pellet shape of the catalysts, which ensure efficient feed distribution and minimize pressure drop. Consecutive side reactions lead to the formation of dienes, polymers, and coke.12 Coke removal from the catalyst during the frequent regeneration is required to maintain acceptable catalyst lifetimes.
Regular catalyst regeneration occurs by oxidation and the associated heat of combustion can be recovered in a straightforward manner, especially if several catalyst beds are operated in parallel. One of the first commercial dehydrogenation processes by using chromiaalumina, Catadiene, was employed for butadiene production, by using a parallel fixed-bed arrangement of reactors, which are operated in swing mode to alternate the dehydrogenation and coke removal.
In the late 1980s, the development of new processes broadened the application range to the production of propene from propane. Catofin employs dehydrogenation and catalyst regeneration in a swing mode that is similar to the Catadiene process. An adiabatic fixed-bed reactor is used and pre-heated propane is fed into the reactor, with cooling as the reaction proceeds along the reactor.14 In the early 1970s, the continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) concept was introduced by UOP; the associated process used an adiabatic fluidized-bed reactor (UOP Oleflex).10, 12 However, ethane dehydrogenation by using this route could not compete with steam cracking because of the relatively low activity of the catalysts, thus leading to low single-pass yields.
2.3. Dehydration of ethanol
The industrial production of ethanol from biomass, in particular in Brazil, has made it an available commodity for its introduction as a fuel additive or hydrocarbon substitute.15, 16 Thus, the dehydration of ethanol, [Eq. (2)], seems feasible as a niche route to olefins in certain locations.14 The mildly endothermic dehydration is catalyzed at around 300 °C by using solid acids4 and selectivities of over 99 % are possible.
(2)
Although the reaction was performed for a long time with homogeneous catalysts (sulfuric and phosphoric acid), heterogeneous catalysts, such as alumina, silica, and other solid acid catalysts, have now largely replaced homogeneous catalysts.17, 18
The process layout is straightforward. Ethanol is heated and fed into the catalytic reactor, followed by a gas/liquid separator, which splits the product stream into a liquid stream that contains ethanol and water and a gas stream that mainly contains ethene. The ethene stream has to be purified in several stages. Compared to steam cracking, this process consumes less energy and the production of carbon and nitrous oxides is decreased.4
3. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane: Mechanistic Considerations
In contrast to the above-mentioned processes, the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane (ODH) has not been implemented on a large scale yet. Its conceptual advantage over dehydrogenation, that is, high ethane conversion, potentially lower reaction temperatures (about 400–600 °C) as compared to steam cracking, and the fact that the reaction is exothermic, has spurred growing interest in this process [Eq. (3)].
(3)
Short-chain alkanes, in particular ethane that is extracted from conventional natural gas and shale gas, are cheap and abundant and, thus, is a suitable feedstock for oxidative dehydrogenation.19 However, major practical differences are required compared to the established steam cracking. Firstly, O2 is added to the feed, thus imposing additional safety measures to prevent the thermal runaway of the reaction and consequential explosions. Secondly, the development of suitable catalysts is particularly challenging, because the olefin products tend to be more reactive than the reacting alkanes. This relatively higher reactivity of the olefins is attributed to enhanced additional directed bonding to most catalytic surfaces, whereas alkanes interact almost exclusively through dispersion forces.1
Because ethane is converted into ethene through dehydrogenation, some total oxidation, thus forming CO and CO2, as well as water, may take place. This latter reaction pathway originates from oxygen insertion into the CH bond during the primary activation or from the addition of oxygen to ethene, as shown in Figure 1. Because the latter reaction could involve oxygen anions or electrophilic oxygen atoms, it is important to prevent the re-adsorption of ethene and to separate it from O2. Whereas such oxygenates are intermediates on the route to total oxidation, many of the targeted uses of, for example, ethene, such as polymerization, require very high purity of the olefins.20
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
ODH reaction of ethane with side reactions.
Almost-complete selectivity for a single olefin is only feasible with ethane as feedstock, because ethene is the only possible dehydrogenation product and it is sufficiently unreactive towards oxygen addition. The hydrogenolytic CC bond cleavage of ethane or ethene, which results in the formation of CH4, is a highly structure-sensitive reaction and, hence, unlikely under most conditions.21
In contrast, this result does not hold true in the case of propene. Nevertheless, the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane is possible,22 but the yields of propene are low because the allylic structure that is formed upon further hydrogen abstraction from propene favors further oxidation,6 thus leading to oxygenated by-products and, eventually, COx.23
The various reactivities of the reactants and the products can be better understood by considering their CH bond energies. Whereas the weakest CH bond in ethane has a bond energy of 419.5 kJ mol−1, its analogue in propane has a value of 401.3 kJ mol−1. However, the weakest CH bond in ethene has an energy of 444 kJ mol−1 compared to 360.7 kJ mol−1 in propene. A more distinct difference can be seen in terms of the weakest CC bond, which has a bond energy of 720 kJ mol−1 in ethene, because the only CC bond is a double bond, compared to 413.8 kJ mol−1 in propene, in which the weakest CC bond is a single bond. In general, to achieve high selectivities, it is mandatory that the weakest CH or CC bond in the olefin is less than 30 kJ mol−1 weaker than the weakest CH bond in the reacting paraffin.24 This result is true for ethane and ethene, but not for propane and propene.
As a consequence, the ODH of ethane is a promising route with potentially high selectivity.10, 25 The reported exploratory approaches range from catalyst development to combining high activity and selectivity, that is, to tailor the catalyst, in such a way that it favors hydrogen abstraction, as well as minimizing oxygen insertion,8, 26 to new reactor concepts.11, 27, 28 The emerging paradigm is that the development of suitable catalysts requires fundamental insight into the reaction mechanism on a molecular level, including the details of the interactions with the catalytic surfaces and the associated gas-phase reactions.7
Because a very diverse range of catalytic materials have been reported, we will first describe the catalytic chemistry of the ODH of ethane on these materials, with an emphasis on the understanding of the catalytically active site. The mechanism and catalytic performance of selected catalysts are discussed with respect to the overall performance, as well as with respect to the applied reaction conditions. The materials explored include transition-metal, rare-earth-metal, and alkali metal oxides, as well as supported alkali chlorides. The optimal reaction conditions for these classes of catalysts differ because of differences in their catalytic activity, which, for practical reasons, are compensated for by varying the reaction temperature. Because it is rationalized that the first CH activation is rate determining in most cases, we start by discussing the activation of the first CH bond.
3.1. CH activation and cleavage
Overall, the CH cleavage steps can occur either homolytically or heterolytically, with homolytic bond cleavage dominant.
3.1.1. Single-electron processes
Homolytic CH bond rupture involves unpaired electrons and, hence, in most cases, higher energy barriers than elementary steps that involve paired electrons. Moreover, it has to be induced thermally (which can be aided by CH bond polarization) or by radicals.29 Figure 2 shows a typical one-electron process, inducing a radical chain mechanism for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Single-electron process for CH bond activation (adapted from Ref. 1).
The high energy barriers that are involved in the single-electron process have disadvantages compared to surface catalytic processes. The involvement of free radicals may induce further gas-phase reactions, which are complex to control. In ethane conversion, for example, butanes may form by the recombination of ethyl radicals. Figure 2 shows a good example, because H2O2 that is formed transiently may decompose into two OH. radicals, which would further enhance the reaction rate by creating new radical cycles.
The concentration of alkyl radicals and their reactivity depend on the reaction temperature. Catalytically, one route for the generation of alkyl radicals involves their formation on the active surface. Especially at elevated temperatures, the radical is released into the gas phase, in which it reacts further. A second possibility is that alkyl radicals react close to the catalytic surface, such as in the boundary layer. The third possibility is that the radical reacts quickly while it is still adsorbed on the catalyst surface, that is, it undergoes conversion into the corresponding olefin through β-elimination or reaction with carbon oxides through attack by adsorbed unselective oxygen species.7
Some examples of catalysts that generate radicals on the surface, with free-radical processes prevailing in the gas phase, include rare-earth oxides and alkali oxides.30–32 Leveles et al. exemplified this mechanism for the ODH of propane on MgO-supported Li2O.33, 34 Their study showed that alkanes were activated on the catalyst surface in the rate-determining step, thus producing alkyl radicals. However, the overall reaction was markedly influenced by gas-phase chemistry.
Despite the large number of contributions to this area, the nature of the active site that abstracts the H atom is still debated.35 A likely model suggests that [Li+O−] acts as the active site to generate the radicals by abstracting a hydrogen atom and forming an OH− group [Eq. (4)].1
(4)
The alkyl radicals start a chain reaction in the gas phase that leads to the olefin and further radicals. It should be emphasized that, in the absence of O2, hydrogen and methyl radicals are the chain propagators with iso- and n-propyl radicals the main acting species. In the presence of O2, the hydroperoxyl radical is the main chain propagator and it exists in higher concentrations than radicals that are formed in the absence of O2 [Eq. (5)].
(5)
The hydroperoxyl radical activates hydrocarbons, thus forming H2O2 [Eq. (6)].
(6)
The latter product decomposes into two hydroxyl radicals, which act as the main chain propagators36 and react with hydrocarbons to form water [Eq. (7.1) and (7.2)].
(7.1)
(7.2)
O2 regenerates the surface OH− species [Eq. (8.1) and (8.2)].
(8.1)
(8.2)
Alternatively, regeneration occurs through the ready elimination of water from the surface at elevated reaction temperatures. However, the surface hydroxyl groups are only part of the cycle and do not have catalytic properties.33, 37
Whereas in the prior example, the radical that was formed on the surface initiated a gas-phase process, homolytic CH cleavage on the catalyst surface may also be followed by propagation on the catalyst surface.38 Hence, oxidation reactions in microporous materials, such as zeolites or redox-active oxides, may be controlled by surface free-radical reactions. Examples of catalysts that follow this pathway are vanadium or cobalt species in zeolites1 or on oxide surfaces.38 The catalyst initiates the reaction by the activation of the first CH bond through the generation of an ethyl radical. This species reacts quickly on the surface, thereby acting as a chain propagator. Sauer and co-workers showed that the formation of transient radicals on an oxide surface is energetically favored over gas-phase reactions.39 However, there are indications that this way of activating the first CH bond, that is, through a single-electron process, is unique for V-containing catalysts.40 The absence of radical processes that propagate into the gas phase, that is, the fact that the reaction is confined to the catalytic surface, leads to better control of the reaction and results in enhanced olefin selectivity.
V- and Ni-containing catalysts also undergo single-electron-transfer processes, but this will be addressed later.
3.1.2. Processes that involve paired electrons
In contrast to single-electron processes for the ODH of ethane, several catalytic mechanisms involve the simultaneous transfer of two electrons. In these cases, the first CH bond is cleaved heterolytically and a redox pair of one or more metal oxides is involved. In general, the heterolytic cleavage of a CH bond requires strongly basic sites on the catalyst surface to facilitate proton abstraction. A nucleophilic lattice oxygen atom of a basic oxide can serve as such a site.8 It is disputed whether the heterolytic splitting can be facilitated by electrophilic metal cations.26 Figure 3 shows a typical catalytic cycle, which involves the transfer of an electron pair, taking a molybdenum oxide as an example. Vanadium-based catalysts can follow the same type of paired-electron mechanism.
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Redox cycle over Mo, which involves a paired electron transfer (adapted from Ref. 3).
3.2. Active sites for the ODH of ethane
Having shown that sites with single or paired electrons may be involved in the oxidative hydrogen-abstraction step, let us turn to the catalytically active sites. Sites for the ODH reactions of alkanes can be grouped into those that contain redox-active metal cations and those that involve anions in the redox cycle.
3.2.1. Redox-active metal oxides
Most of the catalysts that have been reported to be active for the ODH of ethane fall into this category. The ODH of ethane on such materials follows a Mars–van Krevelen41 mechanism. In a polar route, ethane reacts with a metal-oxide species and forms an ethoxyhydroxy pair (Figure 3). After the activation of the β-H atom, ethene is formed and desorbs from the catalyst, thereby leaving a dihydroxy species behind. Water is eliminated from the dihydroxy species, thereby reducing the metal oxide.3 The reduced metal oxide is subsequently re-oxidized by gas-phase O242.
The cleavage of the first CH bond may occur homolytically or heterolytically. The most prominent catalysts are based on vanadium oxide,9, 38, 43 with γ-Al2O3 or SiO2 as typical supports.44, 45 The oxidic support is not involved in the redox cycle; however, it does influence the activity and lability of the oxygen atoms that are associated with V.46 Three types of available metaloxide bonds can be distinguished, that is, terminal vanadyloxygen bonds, bridging oxygen atoms between two V cations, and bridging O atoms between a V cation and the support. The isolated VO4 species in Figure 4 shows terminal VO bonds and bridging oxygen bonds between a V atom and the support. The polymeric VO4 species show additional VO bonds, which bridge between two V atoms. Two questions, that is, which of the oxygen atoms participate in the critical first CH bond activation and what is the structure of the active site, have been vividly debated, without reaching an unequivocal conclusion.1
Figure 4
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Different surface vanadium species (adapted from Ref. 1).
Ethane can be activated at redox-active metal centers that involve either one or two centers. The first possibility is that ethane interacts with the oxygen atoms that are coordinated to one metal cation, as shown in Figure 3. In this case, two terminal MO bonds are involved in the ODH of ethane through the transfer of paired electrons. V2O5-based catalysts with higher V2O5 loadings, which form polyvanadate species (e.g., 2 wt. % V2O5 on Al2O32), are believed to operate through a mechanism in which paired metal centers undergo a single-electron reduction (in this case from V5+ to V4+).2 Two neighboring metal sites actively cooperate in the ODH reaction; however, only one of them performs the first CH cleavage. This mechanism is shown in Figure 5. The other possibility is the cooperation between two neighboring redox sites or materials, which involves two or more different anions. However, in this case, the two redox centers must have different oxidation states. This mechanism is mainly known from selective oxidation of butane,1, 47 but may also be applied to the ODH of ethane.
Figure 5
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Mechanism of the ODH reaction over V2O5-based catalysts (S=support, adapted from Ref. 2).
For the ODH of ethane, it is known that neighboring surface vanadia species lead to enhanced reducibility and, hence, also to increased reactivity.
Figure 6 shows a mechanism that involves two redox centers with oxidation numbers +4 and +5. In this case, initial CH activation occurs through heterolytic cleavage.
Figure 6
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Cooperation between two redox sites (adapted from Ref. 1).
3.2.2. Catalysts with non-redox-active metals
The ODH of ethane through homolytic activation of the CH bonds without a change in the oxidation state of the metal is also possible. In that case, the anion (in most cases halogens) assumes the role of the redox-active element. Depending on the temperature, this process may formally involve single or paired electrons. These two possibilities cannot be differentiated if the bond-breaking and -forming steps occur without charge separation.
The first concept in this chapter is an indirect route to oxidative dehydrogenation, which is realized by the halogenation of CH4 followed by radical formation or acid-catalyzed elimination and subsequent CC coupling on LaCl3-based catalysts. In particular, HCl and HBr are suitable for such transient halogenations.1 Of course, ethane can also be directly halogenated and induced to eliminate HX.48–50 In this case, the formation of vinyl chloride has been observed.
Mechanistically, O2, in combination with HX, leads to the formation of positively charged halogen atoms on the catalyst surface. Subsequently, the hydrogen atom in the first CH bond undergoes electrophilic substitution. To complete the catalytic cycle, water is eliminated in the next step, by combining one H atom from the alkane and one from HCl, thus replenishing the transferred Cl− ion. This process involves unpaired electrons, but not radical gas-phase reactions. However, the resulting overall chemistry only differs very subtly from free-radical reactions.
LaCl3-based catalysts are ideally suited to produce chlorinated species because of the suitable strength of the LaCl bond. If the strength of the metalchloride bond is stronger, similar catalytic chemistry can be realized, but the chloride transfer is dramatically decreased and olefins appear as the primary products.
The second concept comprises a related catalytic route, which involves halogen species that are based on supported alkali chlorides. Ethane activation over these catalysts most likely involves the decomposition of hypochlorite at the surface, thus forming .O− and .Cl radicals [Eq. (9)].51
(9)
Subsequently, H is homolytically abstracted from adsorbed ethane, thus resulting in the formation of a hydroxy group and an ethyl radical, which recombine to afford ethyl chloride. This result can also be interpreted as transient halogenation [Eq. (10)].
(10)
The next step can proceed through two routes. One possibility is that the ethyl chloride decomposes, thereby forming the olefin and water, with the release of Cl−. In a later step, Cl− can undergo a new oxidation step [Eq. (11)].
(11)
The other possibility would be a ClC bond formation on the surface, thus leading to subsequent homolytic cleavage, with the release of an ethyl radical. This route would start a gas-phase radical mechanism33, 34 [Eq. (12)].
(12)
It is also conceivable that two H atoms are eliminated in a concerted manner by hypochlorite anions that themselves are formed upon the concerted reaction of O2 with LiCl.1 The hydrogen abstraction leads to the reduction of the hypochlorite anion back into chloride, according to Equations (13.1), (13.2), and (13.3).
(13.1)
(13.2)
(13.3)
To complete the list of catalysts that follow this pathway, rare-earth oxides30 and LiDyMg mixed oxides21 also have to be addressed, even though they do not contain halogen atoms; they will be explained in detail later on.
A third reaction pathway is realized by catalysts that are able to form peroxo species,52, 53 such as vanadium oxides. Conceptually, V2O5 should allow the formation of such peroxo species.53 In such a pathway, the vanadium cation itself does not have any redox functionality; Figure 7 shows how the oxidation state of the involved oxygen atoms changes instead. Peroxovanadate species catalyze such a single-site mechanism. CH bonds on both carbon atoms of ethane are attacked through homolytic cleavage, followed by the formation of ethene and two hydroxyl groups on the V atom. Subsequently, water is eliminated and the VO bond is formed again.
Figure 7
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
ODH reactions with peroxovanadate species.
However, V is known to form various metaloxide bonds in various structural environments, as discussed above.54 Raman and UV/Vis studies have shown that peroxo species may not generally form on certain supports, such as silica, but are conceivable in organometallic compounds.55 Furthermore, higher concentrations of Vperoxo moieties can only form at very low temperatures (90 K),53 which are not realistic for the ODH of ethane.
DFT calculations have shown that peroxo species can form on V2O5 surfaces. However, the substitution of O2 by N2O as an oxidizing agent (described in more detail in Section 3.3.3) disables the formation of peroxovanadates. It is likely that vanadyl species are active and selective for the ODH reaction, whereas peroxo-forming sites are unselective.56
3.3. Factors that govern the activity and selectivity of ODH catalysts
3.3.1. Metaloxygen bond strength
One important parameter, especially for redox-active catalysts, is the strength of the metaloxygen bond in the active site; more specifically, its strength and its variation with the degree of reduction in a catalytic cycle.57 As the strength of this bond varies, the activity and selectivity of an oxidation catalyst will pass through a maximum in terms of the formation rate of the partial oxidation product, that is, in the specific case discussed here, the formation rate of olefins. Such a relation is called a “volcano” relationship.
If the metaloxygen bond is weak, the catalyst is active (e.g., condensed supported vanadium-oxide clusters) but not very selective, because multiple oxidation steps are facile.58 As the bond strength increases (e.g., smaller clusters of supported vanadia), the reactivity will gradually decrease, but the selectivity will increase.59 For example, silica supports lead to the highest selectivity of VO species, because no polymeric vanadia species can be observed.5
If one site contains more than one oxygen atom in an optimal material, the release of the second oxygen atom after the initial reduction step is much more difficult than the first, for example, in a material with a metal site that is in a high oxidation state combined with a non-reducible oxide site.60
Even if the support is not directly involved in most redox catalysts for the ODH of ethane, its acid/base properties may play the role of a mediator of the redox-active cluster. A more-acidic support increases the metaloxygen bond strength in the redox-active cluster, whereas a more-basic oxide decreases it. This trend can be illustrated with vanadium on a series of different supports, in which an increasing acidity is correlated with decreasing activity and increasing olefin selectivity (V2O5/MgO<V2O5/MgO+Al2O3<V2O5/Al2O3).5
3.3.2. Functionality of the active sites and the cooperation between phases
ODH is a complex reaction that requires the active sites to possess multiple qualities. It has to be able to adsorb and chemisorb the alkane, to facilitate the abstraction of two hydrogen atoms, to be re-oxidized by oxygen from the gas phase, and to desorb the produced olefin.57 Typical vanadate or molybdate anions are capable of performing multiple reaction steps, as depicted in the examples above. However, highly effective catalysts exist that consist of two phases, which act in a concerted manner, with the two phases in close spatial proximity to one another.
The most prominent example of this phenomenon is the combination of V2O5 and molybdate sites by depositing V2O5 clusters onto a polymolybdate surface that is supported on alumina.1, 61 Whereas V2O5 is still considered to be the active center, Mo seems to decrease the polarity of the metaloxygen bonds and, hence, increase the acidic character of the surface without changing the nature of the active V2O5 site. Increasing the V2O5 content up to one monolayer increased the selectivity for ODH over total oxidation reactions. The ratio between the total oxidation and the ODH reaction was notably lower than with V2O5 that was supported on Al2O3 without the molybdates. The presence of the molybdate decreased the interactions between the V cations and the olefin product, thus leading to accelerated olefin desorption and, hence, higher selectivities.1
3.3.3. Role of O2 and the density of sites
A comprehensive study that compared O2 and N2O as oxidants was reported by Kondratenko et al.62 This study on vanadia that was incorporated into MCM-41 also nicely pointed out the importance of site isolation and the influence of the density of active sites. The use of N2O instead of O2 resulted in lower activity, as explained by the fact that N2O had a lower ability to re-oxidize the VOx sites from the reduced state caused hydrogen abstraction and water elimination. Because the elementary steps of the reaction are independent of the oxidant and the same oxygen lattice species are formed regardless whether O2 or N2O is used, the steady-state concentration of lattice oxygen atoms must account for the difference in reactivity. Not only is the olefin selectivity markedly higher if N2O is used as an oxidant, the decrease in olefin selectivity with increasing activity also becomes less notable with N2O as an oxidant compared to O2. Because N2O tends to re-oxidize the reduced vanadia sites more slowly than O2, the concentration of those sites is lower, thus lowering the probability that more than two labile lattice oxygen atoms exist per site. More labile oxygen atoms per site favor unselective total oxidation reactions and eliminate the possibility that adsorbed oxygen species are in spatial proximity to the vanadia centers (but not incorporated into the lattice),63 which might enhance total oxidation.
3.3.4. Desorption and re-adsorption of ethane
Because olefins are more reactive than alkanes, ethene shows a higher affinity, as well as higher reactivity, with most surfaces than ethane. Hence, the re-adsorption of the formed olefin on the catalytic surface limits the selectivity. The stepwise addition of oxygen is frequently followed by decarbonylation or decarboxylation on acid catalysts. Therefore, the addition of oxygen, which leads to products such as acetaldehyde or acetic acid, will, in turn, enhance the selectivity for total oxidation. Because the re-adsorption of olefins is linked to the presence of accessible metal cations (Lewis acid sites), their presence has to be minimized. Three options exist to accomplish this goal:
The first option is to use oxides with low specific surface areas, thereby minimizing the concentration of accessible Lewis acid sites. Thus, catalysts with high crystallinity show excellent selectivities in the ODH of ethane,64, 65 as well as in other oxidation reactions,66 because they expose a limited number of unselective sites.
The second concept relies on surfaces that dynamically rearrange to prevent the exposure of cations, such as a supported molten chloride overlayer. The mobility of the melt prevents the formation of defect sites (coordinatively unsaturated metal cations), which are speculated to initiate the reactions that lead to deep oxidation. In a melt, the surface re-arranges, thereby quickly limiting the concentration of these exposed cations by covering the transiently present exposed cations.51, 67 The fact that predominantly anions that are not able to attack the double bond of the olefin are present on the outer surface further enhances the benefits of a molten overlayer.
A third concept to improve product desorption is site isolation, which increases the selectivity for partial-oxidation products68 by restricting the local availability of oxygen. Thus, labile lattice oxygen or ensembles of atoms that contain a redox-active site need to be spatially isolated. As pointed out above, active sites with more than two labile lattice oxygen atoms facilitate oxygen insertion before desorption, thus eventually leading to COx species.63 Thus, a good distribution of labile oxygen atoms and the limitation of the number of oxygen atoms per site help to prevent total oxidation.60 On the other hand, single oxygen atoms on a catalytic surface are inactive or prone to the generation of allyl radicals, which react further in the gas phase.57, 68 Therefore, two labile oxygen atoms per site appear to be optimal for the highly selective ODH of alkanes.
4. Groups of ODH Catalysts
Having discussed the elementary steps in the ODH process, we now turn to the description of potential catalysts that are suitable for oxidative dehydrogenation. This discussion should help to relate the potential elementary steps of reactions to specific examples of catalysts. Special attention will be paid to the structures of the active sites on different catalysts for the ODH of ethane and the common properties and differences between the various classes of catalysts.
4.1. Transition-metal oxides
4.1.1. Vanadium-oxide-based systems
Supported vanadium-oxide-based catalysts are the most intensively studied of these systems. The V cations may change their oxidation state between +III, +IV, and +V,1, 69 thus making the catalysts redox active, but they can also form ODH-active peroxo species.53 In this case, the cation does not change its oxidation state. It is debated whether or not the activation of the first CH bond occurs through paired- or single-electron transfer with these catalysts.
In particular, UV/Vis and Raman spectroscopy70, 71 showed that vanadium oxide was present in the form of distinct species. VOx sites exist in their isolated or polymeric forms, either as a 2D layer of interconnected tetrahedral vanadate clusters (VO43−) that are connected through corners38, 72 or as dimeric pyrovanadate clusters (V2O74−) that are connected through an oxygen atom, as shown in Figure 4.73
To optimize the catalytic performance and to explore the reaction mechanism, many parameters, including the dispersion of the vanadate centers, the support material (thus potentially altering the acid/base properties of the catalyst), and the addition of dopants or promoters, were systematically varied. The most important parameter was the variation of the dispersion of vanadium oxide on the support, which may markedly influence the reactivity of the catalyst.74
Because a consensus has not been reached on whether terminal VO bonds or bridging VOAl bonds form the catalytically active site, let us now introduce the two different leading paradigms, as exemplified by different experimental approaches and results, followed by their specific interpretations.
Martinez-Huerta et al.42 studied a vanadia catalyst that was supported on γ-Al2O3 by using temperature-programmed reduction, in situ Raman, IR, UV/Vis diffuse reflectance, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, combined with kinetic measurements. By synthesizing isolated and polymeric VOx species, as well as crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, their combination of physicochemical and catalytic measurements allowed important conclusions regarding the active site to be drawn.
Whereas at low sub-monolayer vanadia loadings, only isolated surface species with three VO-support bonds and one terminal VO bond were found, an increase in the vanadia loading resulted in the formation of polymeric vanadia species with only one VO-support bond, one VO terminal bond, and two VO bridging bonds. Only once a surface monolayer of vanadia was present were 3D V2O5 nanoparticle crystallites formed on top of the surface monolayer.75 The catalysts with higher vanadia loading (mostly polymeric surface vanadia species) showed the lowest reduction temperatures and, thus, the most reducible. The reduction of isolated surface vanadia species was more difficult for V2O5 nanoparticles. Interestingly, the VO bond of the vanadia species becomes stronger with increasing coverage (shift from 1010 to 1023 cm−1 for the main peak in the Raman spectra), even though the reducibility of the polymeric surface vanadia species was the lowest. Thus, one may conclude that the rate-determining reduction step cannot be influenced by the terminal VO bond, thus suggesting that the terminal VO bond is not the primary active site for the ODH of ethane.
Increasing the surface concentration of vanadia species, which resulted in a higher concentration of bridging VOV bonds, did not change the catalytic activity, thus suggesting that those bonds were not catalytically active for ethane activation.76, 77 Because crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles tend to catalyze total oxidation, the lower selectivity at high V loading can be explained by the presence of such nanoparticles. However, it should be kept in mind that the V2O5 nanoparticles might undergo a solid-state reaction with the support at higher temperatures, thus forming AlVO4 as a new phase. In turn, this reaction would decrease the number of V-free Al2O3 sites, thereby decreasing the trend for total oxidation.42
Thus, it was concluded that, in supported surface vanadium oxide, neither the terminal VO bond, the bridging VOV bond, nor V2O5 nanoparticles were active in the ODH reaction.42 Thus, according to that rationale, the bridging VOAl bond was the only option left and, therefore, was inferred to be the active site in this catalytic system. Other authors have accepted this argument, especially the aspect that the bridging VOV site cannot be active for the initial CH bond cleavage in the ODH of ethane.1
DFT calculations by using well-defined vanadia clusters with the metal oxidation state +5 have been found to be an excellent approach for obtaining a more in-depth insight into the reactivity.78, 79 Evaluation of the energy barriers leads to the conclusion that a hydrogen atom is abstracted through cleavage of the VO terminal bond, with the formation of transient radicals and, subsequently, a CV bond.39, 78, 79 A bridging oxygen atom could abstract the second hydrogen atom in this case, thus resulting in ethene formation. One drawback of this theoretical experiment is that the VO-support bond is not present in the model vanadia cluster. Thus, further DFT calculations were performed by using a V-substituted silsequioxane cluster with bridging oxygen atoms between the V atoms and the support cations.79 DFT calculations showed that, even in the presence of VO-support bonds, the terminal VO (vanadyl) bond was the only active species for the activation and cleavage of the first CH bond.
To summarize, a consensus exists within the literature that the bridging VOV bond cannot be responsible for the activation of the first CH bond. However, some discrepancies still exist between theory and experiment, that is, whether the terminal VO bond or the VO-support bond is the site for the activation of the first CH bond.
The concept of site isolation assumes a special role in this context. Apparently, the spatial proximity of two—but not more—vanadia centers is essential. This result agrees with the hypothesis that the bridging VOV bond does not boost the initial CH bond activation in the ODH reaction, but facilitates the second H abstraction. Thus, an ensemble of two vanadium centers seems to be the active site, regardless of whether the VO terminal bond or the VO-support bond acts as the active site.
An investigation of the influence of different V loadings showed that, in accordance with expectations, higher V loading on γ-Al2O3 resulted in increased activity and improved ethene selectivity.42 This result can be explained by the fact that V-free Al2O3 cation sites exist on this catalyst, which are reported to be inactive for ODH but to catalyze the total oxidation of the olefin, mainly into CO. Thus, the acid sites of γ-Al2O3 mainly contribute to the acidity of the supported catalyst at low V loadings, whereas the vanadate compounds are mainly responsible for the acidity at higher V loadings. However, in this case, only the vanadia-related acid sites are responsible for product degradation towards carbon oxides.42 The overall activity increased with the total concentration of acidic sites and with the electronegativity of the dopants.80
However, there is an upper vanadia-loading limit beyond which the ODH yield decreases. Whereas the sites on Al2O3 should be covered at such loadings, as-formed V2O5 particles catalyze the total oxidation of ethene into CO.42 Neither acid/base properties nor the chemical composition show pronounced effects on the ODH yield.
The presence of vanadia-free Al2O3 sites leads to the question of whether other supports might be more appropriate. Indeed, the activity of supported-vanadia-based catalysts strongly depends on the interactions with the oxide support, as well as on the structure of the support.81
The dispersion and formation of the active sites are influenced by the nature of the support material. A comparison between γ-Al2O3 and SiO2 nicely illustrates this fact: γ-Al2O3 is a better support than SiO2, owing to the better dispersion of vanadium oxide and the coordination of the V cations. Its acidic character plays a less important role in this case.38 As discussed above, the active site (two oxygen-bridged tetrahedrally coordinated V cations) are preferentially formed on γ-Al2O3. These sites can be more easily reduced by ethane than the tetrahedrally coordinated vanadate monomers, which are mainly formed on the SiO2 support, and the octahedrally coordinated V species in pure V2O5.38
Another proposed support is hexagonal mesoporous silica (HMS).82 However, the influence of the V loading on the catalytic performance was explored with respect to the ODH of propane. Up to 3.2 wt. % V, the ODH activity increased with the V content. Above 3.2 wt. % V, the reaction selectivity and yield decreased. This result can be explained by the detection and characterization of different surface vanadium-oxide species by temperature-programmed reduction with H2 and UV/Vis spectroscopy, specifically: 1) Monomeric V species in tetrahedral coordination (VO4) that are active and selective in the ODH reaction; 2) oligomeric and distorted tetrahedral vanadium-oxide species (both up to 3.2 wt. % V) that are highly active but less selective; and 3) aggregated vanadium-oxide clusters with octahedral coordination (VO6) that have low activity and selectivity. These results confirm that a high V dispersion is crucial for catalytic performance. Moreover, in this case, the spatial separation of the vanadate centers (site isolation) is a key feature in determining activity and selectivity.57, 68
Another potential catalyst support for vanadate species is the inexpensive and relatively stable MgO and this catalyst has been the subject of several studies.77, 80, 83 Klisinska et al. studied catalysts with a formal concentration of 1.5 monolayers of vanadium oxide and compared MgO to SiO2 as a support. Dopants, such as K, P, Ni, Cr, Nb, and Mo, influenced the acid/base and redox properties but did not markedly impact on the structure of the catalysts. MgO-supported catalysts formed magnesium orthovanadate (Mg3V2O8)83 as a sole V-containing species that was either present in an amorphous bulk phase or in a thin layer on the support. Only Lewis acid sites were detected on these materials. Their concentration increased with the electronegativity of the dopant. Although the activities of the catalysts could not be correlated to their acid/base properties, their selectivity depended on the dopant. The main by-product in the ODH of ethane was CO2, whereas CO was only formed in trace amounts.
As MgO is known to have basic sites and vanadate species, together with the fact that pure V2O5 des not show any basic sites,43 the surface acidity and basicity (the acid/base character) of the vanadium species do not seem to have a crucial impact on the reaction. However, the acid/base properties of the support may have an impact on the reactivity, which will be explained below.
Chao et al. investigated MgO as a support by comparing two groups of mixed-metal oxides, that is, mesostructured Mg/V oxide and a mixed oxide that was prepared by a solid-state reaction between MgO and V2O5. For both systems, activity increased with Mg content, but the selectivity for ethene decreased. In comparison, the mesostructured oxides were more active and selective. Again, this result can be explained by the highly dispersed Mg species in the V2O3 phase and the high surface areas. Mg species are assumed to lower the redox capacities of V-containing species, thereby influencing the activation of ethane.40
The influence of the oxidation state of the vanadia species becomes important if the ODH on vanadia-based systems is initiated by the transfer of paired electrons. For this mechanism, two vanadia centers have to cooperate as shown in Figure 6. Whereas only V5+ could be observed in freshly calcined catalysts, V4+ was also detected on used catalysts, especially after experiments with high conversion levels. Thus, V4+ species alone seem to favor deep oxidation and, as a consequence, lead to lower selectivities for the olefin. In passing, a V5+/V4+ ratio of 1:1 yields the maximum selectivity in O-insertion reactions.84
Let us now return to the doping of vanadia-containing catalysts as a means to improve the catalytic performance. Galli et al. studied the effect of K+ doping into an Al2O3-supported vanadia catalyst.85 The incorporation of K+ ions lowers the reducibility of vanadia catalysts. The olefin selectivity in the ODH of ethane decreased, but, for example, increased in the ODH of n-butane. The concentration of acidic sites decreased with increasing K+ incorporation, thus suggesting that acidic sites favor the ODH reactions of short alkanes, whereas basic sites favor the ODH reactions of longer paraffins.
Other promising catalyst systems include V-containing aluminophosphates (also doped with Co and Mg).86–88 These active sites, because V and other metals were incorporated into the microporous aluminophosphate framework, have been shown, for example, by Concepción et al. for AlPO-5 frameworks that contained V, Co, and Mg.
Co-APO-5 has been explored in depth, because it should have the most pronounced redox and acidic properties. This catalyst was active and selective and CoV-APO-5 was even much more active for the ODH of ethane. This result was attributed somewhat vaguely to the cooperation between V and Co sites. A redox couple was assumed to form, but the acidic character of this pair was assumed to change during the reaction. A similar catalyst, VCoAPO-18, which contained V and Co in an AEI structure, led to two different redox pairs (V5+/V4+ and Co3+/Co2+). In both cases, the crystal structure and the presence of the second Co3+/Co2+ redox pair change the redox properties of the V species. The metal cations also serve as Lewis acid sites. The catalyst even shows a higher selectivity than the AFI material. ODH reactions over these catalysts proceed through a Mars–van Krevelen mechanism. The presence of acidic sites close to the redox center favors a fast desorption of the olefin intermediates from the catalyst, thus leading to high selectivity for ethene.86 Too-high V loadings lead to the formation of extra-framework VO species, thus favoring total oxidation. Thus, ideal catalysts have a high degree of incorporation of Co and V into the framework.
The insertion of Mg into the VAPO-5 framework, which is known to create acidic sites,89 resulted in a notable increase in olefin selectivity compared to the Mg-free catalyst (59.7 % versus 32.1 % at T=600 °C and a conversion of about 28 %).88 This example shows again that the spatial proximity of acidic sites to the redox center promotes the desorption of olefin intermediates, thus leading to a lower total oxidation rate and higher olefin selectivity at the same conversion.88 The identical conversion indicates that the redox sites are active for the paraffin transformation and the improved selectivity in the presence of acidic sites shows that acidic sites are not directly involved in the redox cycle, but rather facilitate the desorption step.90–95
This assumption is corroborated by the fact that only low olefin selectivities are reported in V/Mg-oxide based catalysts with MgOV pairs, but without the presence of acidic sites.88, 96
Thus, it can be concluded that the spatial proximity of acidic and redox sites within a molecular-sieve framework is especially positive for ODH reactions. However, the behavior of acidic sites must not be compared with the influence of acidic sites in vanadia species that are supported on bulk oxides, in which acidic centers on the support favor an unselective conversion of ethane.
Phosphorus is another known dopant. One example is (VO)2P2O7, both in bulk and supported on TiO2.97 The supported catalyst contains highly dispersed (VO)2P2O7 and yields a performance that is one order of magnitude higher than the unsupported catalyst. The incorporation of P is another approach for changing the reducibility of V. The strong interactions with TiO2 increase the reducibility of V by decreasing the metaloxygen bond strength (see Section 3.3.1), thereby leading to very active catalysts.
4.1.2. Mo-based systems
As with V oxides, Mo oxides are also active for the ODH of ethane.98–101 However, similar to vanadia systems, a consensus regarding the nature of the active site has not been reached. On the one hand, the active site has been concluded to be a molybdenyl group, which activates the first CH bond, inducing a homolytic cleavage through a single-electron process, because it has been shown that the activity depends on the concentration of MoO bonds.1, 22 On the other hand, different authors have studied Al-supported Mo systems, which have suggested that the anchoring of MoO-support bonds is critical for the ODH reactivity, thus suggesting that oxygen atoms between the support and the molybdenum species are responsible for the catalytic activity.102
Mo can be used on a Si/Ti mixed-oxide support.103–105 The olefin selectivity is especially increased if Cl− ions are added.106–108 This increase is explained by the formation of more-complex ligand structures that contain MoO species on SiO2, whereas the formation of these species is hindered on TiO2. The addition of Cl− ions seems to accelerate olefin desorption by weakening the interactions with ethene, thus limiting its further oxidation. Cl− ions also lower the oxidation potential of the catalyst by lowering the redox potential of Mo4+ ions,107 thus leading to a lower mobility of lattice oxygen atoms. As a result, the addition of Cl− ions leads to strongly bound ethyl species and more weakly bound acetate and formate species, which indicate intermediates on the path to total oxidation.
4.1.3. Mixed-oxide-based systems
Mixed-oxide-based systems appear to be better suited to adjusting the redox potential and acting cooperatively than single oxides.64, 109, 110 One of the most popular mixed-oxide system is based on Mo/V oxides. Mo appears to be particularly active if employed together with V on a mesoporous Al2O3 support.98 However, the main active species is still V. Mo and V do not interact with each other, but the monomeric or polymeric tetrahedral Mo species cover the unselective support sites, thus increasing the selectivity.
It has been reported that such a catalyst, with an orthorhombic Mo3VOx structure, is very active. The high reactivity has been associated to the formation of pentagonal Mo6O21 units. The arrangement of these units leads to heptagonal channels, which constitute micropores. It is speculated that the catalytic reaction proceeds within these pores.111
More-complex systems contain the oxides of V, Mo, Sb, and Nb, which are mainly prepared by hydrothermal synthesis.112 MoVNbOx and MoVSbTe are reported to be very active and selective in the ODH of ethane.3, 113, 114 The catalysts generally consist of two crystalline phases, that is, the orthorhombic M1 phase, (AO)2−2x(A2O)xM20O56 (A=Te, Sb; M=Mo, V, Nb; 0<x<1), and the distorted orthorhombic M2 phase, A2OM6O19 (A=Te, Sb; M=Mo, V, Nb). Further phases have also been found, that is, TeMo5O16/Sb4Mo10Ox, (V,Nb)xMo5−xO14, and bronze phases.113 However, the occurrence of a third phase depends on the synthesis method.115
Notably, ethene has a low reactivity, owing to its low affinity to the M1 phase, which is rich in MoO and VO pairs that have been reported to be the active sites for the ODH of ethane. However, for the oxidation of ethene, MoTe sites or MoNb sites seem to be required, because they form stronger interactions with olefins.113
Botella et al. studied MoVTeNbOx catalysts that were prepared by using different methods.110, 115 For MoVTeNbOx mixed-oxide catalysts, cooperation between two crystalline phases was suggested to explain the structure of an active site that was assembled from the multifunctional Te2M20O57 orthorhombic phase and the Mo5O14 phase. The orthorhombic phase contained pentagonal bipyramidic sites and Te-containing hexagonal pores.110 The catalyst operated at 340 °C with around 20 % conversion and an ethene selectivity of around 97 %. The calcination temperature was crucial for the formation of the above-mentioned phases. Similarly, for MoVSbOx catalysts, the (SbO)2M20O56 phase is highly active and selective (around 65 % conversion and 80 % selectivity). Mo/V-based systems have also been reported to be active if they are promoted with Al, Ga, Bi,116 and Ce.117
4.1.4. Ni- and Co-based systems
NiO-based catalysts are suitable materials for the ODH reaction that operate at relatively low temperatures (300–400 °C). Pure NiO is very reactive towards ethane; however, it exhibits low selectivity for the ODH of ethane. The selectivity dramatically improves if supported on an oxide (Al2O3,118 ZrO2119) or if used as bulk mixed oxide that was doped with promoters, such as Nb and Sn.19, 120–124
NiO that is supported on Al2O3 strongly interacts with the support, thereby forming a non-stoichiometric surface nickel-aluminate phase. At higher loadings, capping islands of NiO particles of increasing size begin to form on top of the nickel/alumina interface. The interactions with alumina adjust the electronic properties of NiO such that the decreased oxygen mobility leads to highly selective catalysts.
The promotion of supported and unsupported NiO-based systems by the addition of metals cations, including Mo, V, Nb, Ta, Co, Li, Mg, Al, Ga, and Ti, is possible.86, 87 The most selective catalysts are based on Ni/Nb oxides, which achieve ethene selectivities of around 90 % and remain almost constant at conversion levels of up to 20 %. A maximum yield of 46 % has been reported at 400 °C. Ni cations are speculated to be active sites for CH activation, with Nb affecting the oxygen species.19
Pure NiO predominantly produces electrophilic O2− and O− species, as well as nucleophilic O2− species, on its surface.125 The addition of Nb results in the elimination of the electrophilic oxygen species that are responsible for the total oxidation of ethane. Thus, the selectivity towards the olefin is improved by Nb acting as an electron donor. Other dopants increase or decrease the presence of unselective electrophilic oxygen species.122 A systematic study of a series of NiO-based mixed oxides with doping metals that varied from low (+1) to high valence (+5) showed that the dissolution of cations with lower/equal valence to nickel (Li+, Mg2+) increased the amount of non-stoichiometric oxygen species in NiO, whereas the higher-valence cations (Al3+, Ga3+, Ti4+, Nb5+, Ta5+) acted as electron donors and decreased the concentration of positive p+ holes and, consequently, the electrophilic O− radicals of the NiO acceptor.122
The ODH of ethane on the NiNbO catalyst follows a Mars–van Krevelen mechanism. Importantly, the redox cycle proceeds through a change in the oxidation state of Ni, whereas Nb does not change its oxidation state. In particular, at large concentrations of Nb (above 15 wt. %), the re-oxidation of Ni2+ can be retarded by the Nb atoms, thereby decreasing the catalytic activity of NiNbO compared to pure NiO.118, 126 However, the addition of Nb decreases the concentration of electrophilic oxygen species, thereby increasing the olefin selectivity.127, 128
Notably, an optimum of the reactant partial pressures exists. Low O2 partial pressures lead to high olefin selectivities, whereas a minimum O2 pressure is needed to keep the catalyst in its fully oxidized state.129
If a catalyst contains more than 15 % Nb, it is deactivated. This result is related to the formation of a NiNb2O6 phase, which is thermodynamically stable under the employed ODH reaction temperatures, but is not active for the ODH reaction.128
Nickel oxide can be used in combination with ceria as a mixed-oxide catalyst.123 Low concentrations of Ce (Ni/Ce>6) lead to a marked increase in catalyst activity and selectivity compared to pure NiO. This increase is related to an increase in the specific surface area and a decrease in reducibility. The addition of higher concentrations of ceria (Ni/Ce=0.2–0.3) changes the mechanism. In this case, ceria is responsible for transportation of the oxygen species from the bulk to the surface, thus forming both NiO and Ce1−xNixO2, and leads to a faster re-oxidation of Ni.
Tungsten is also used to promote NiO.122 The activity decreases with increasing W content, thus indicating that the active sites are associated with accessible Ni cations. Again, W-rich and Ni-rich systems behave differently: W-rich systems mainly form NiWO4 and WO3, whereas Ni-rich systems mainly form NiO and WOx species. W-rich systems favor ethane decomposition, thus decreasing the selectivity for ethane during the ODH reaction. However, Ni-rich catalysts show higher ethene selectivity than pure Ni-based catalysts, but also lower activity. These catalysts contain small NiO and WOx particles, with the latter species assumed to block unselective sites of NiO.
Besides Ni, Co is also an interesting material for the ODH of ethane. However, Co2+ ions cannot be easily reduced; thus, the ODH of ethane does not follow the typical Mars–van Krevelen mechanism.41 Redox properties are associated with adsorbed surface-oxygen species, with Co2+ ions acting as a non-redox-active center.130 These species may be modified by interactions between Co2+ ions as the active phase and a TiO2 support.131 Catalysts that contained various Co and P130 concentrations showed the best performance, with the optimal results achieved with 7.6 wt. % Co. Whereas the catalyst deactivated to form a Co/Ti species, a maximum steady-state yield of 13.3 % was achieved at a conversion of around 25 % and a selectivity of around 60 %. Detailed characterization showed that the active species was Co2+ ions in octahedral coordination.
Co-BaCO3 was explored with CO2 as the oxidant instead of O2. At 650 °C, ethane conversion reached 48 % with 92.2 % olefin selectivity.132 The use of CO2 decreased the flammability of the reactants and eliminated the total oxidation of ethane and ethene. Moreover, coke could still be removed from the catalyst through the reduction of CO2 and the partial oxidation of C. The active sites are reducible Co4+O species. On the other hand, BaCO3 is assumed to form defect centers and trapped electrons, which activate O2 for the ODH reaction. Cooperation between BaCO3 and BaCoO3, as both a redox-active metal and a source of active oxygen species, is assumed to be one reason for the good activity and selectivity of this catalyst, which is a good example of cooperation between sites, as discussed in Section 3.3.2.
4.2. Rare-earth-metal oxides
These catalysts typically consist of La2O3, Sm2O3, CeO2, and Pr6O11.30, 133–136 Promotion with Na30 and CaO137, 138 has also been investigated. The cleavage of the first CH bond occurs through a single-electron process and the catalysts belong to the group of non-redox-active materials. The main catalytic function is the production of ethyl radicals, which are released into the gas phase, with ethene and CO as the main carbon-containing products.30 The catalysts were operated between 600 °C and 900 °C and the selectivity was around 50 %; both the conversion and selectivity for the olefins increased with temperature. This result is thought to be related to the release of ethyl radicals, which increasingly takes place at elevated temperatures. Enhancing the release rates implies that fewer ethoxy species (intermediates of CO2 production) exist on the surface at the steady state.30
The addition of alkali-earth/alkali metals to rare-earth oxides improves the catalytic performance.139 A Sm2O3 catalyst that is doped with 10 % Na+ cations shows a notably higher selectivity than a pure Sm2O3 catalyst. For both catalysts, olefin selectivity decreases with increasing oxygen concentration; however, this effect is not as pronounced for Na+-doped catalysts than for pure Sm2O3. Whereas ethene and CO are the main products with rare-earth oxides, CO2 is observed instead of CO in the presence of Na+ cations. This result suggests that the formation of lattice oxygen species plays a role in the activation of the alkane and it points to the operation of a heterogeneous surface-catalyzed mechanism.
This trend is even more clear in the case of La2O3.30 Adding Sr+ ions to rare-earth oxides leads to a marked increase in activity and selectivity. At 700 °C, Sr2O3 on neodymium oxide is the optimal catalyst in terms of activity and selectivity, whereas Sr+-doped CeO2 and praseodymium oxides show the poorest performance.139
Rare-earth oxides are either employed as bulk materials or on a MgO support, being per se also a potential catalyst for the ODH of ethane. By comparing the performance of Sm2O3-covered MgO with that of pure MgO, it is interesting that Sm2O3 does not increase the catalytic activity, although it increases the specific surface area. However, covering MgO in the same way with La2O3 strongly enhances the catalytic activity. This result cannot be explained by only surface stabilization at higher specific surface areas; thus, the intrinsic activity of the catalyst seems to be drastically improved by La3+ species.30
CeO2 is an exception because it has two oxidation states in the catalytic cycle. Ceria-based catalysts are unique because CO2 can be used as an oxidant.137 However, higher temperatures are required for the activation of CO2 compared to oxygen.140 In this case, a combination of a homogeneous and heterogeneous mechanisms is assumed. For the heterogeneous catalyst part, Ce4+ species are reduced by ethane into Ce3+ species, thus supplying oxygen, and are re-oxidized through the reduction of CO2. CeO2 plays a role not only because of its redox properties, but also because of its oxygen-storage capacity. To further improve the catalytic performance, the addition of Ca2+ ions to Ce4+ ions increases the oxygen-ion mobility of CeO2, as well as contributes to a higher surface basicity, thus leading to faster olefin desorption (higher olefin selectivity).137 Interestingly, olefin desorption is accelerated in the presence of basic sites on this class of catalysts, in contrast to redox-active catalysts, in which acid sites that are in spatial proximity to redox pairs favor olefin desorption, as mentioned before.
The improvement of the catalytic performance of rare-earth oxides can also be achieved by the addition of halides.141–144 Au and co-workers reported that the addition of 50 mol % BaCl2 to Ho2O3141 lowered the reactivity of the oxygen species and, thus, favored the activation of the weaker CH bond in ethane (410 kJ mol−1) instead of the CH bond in ethene (452 kJ mol−1). Raman spectroscopy showed that the intensity of the bands of O2 species was higher for the BaCl2-containing catalyst compared to pure Ho2O3. Thus, the addition of BaCl2 resulted in a higher storage capacity and activation activity of O2 species. Again, a higher concentration of basic sites, which was induced by the addition of BaCl2, decreased the adsorption of ethene and, thus, the total oxidation of ethane. It can be inferred that intrinsically weaker adsorption and site-isolation are the key concepts for avoiding the re-adsorption of ethane onto these catalysts, thus, maintaining high selectivities. Cation substitution of Ho3+ and Ba2+ is assumed to create oxygen defects that are active for O2 activation. A similar phenomenon is observed on Sm2O3/LaF3 catalysts by promotion with BaF3.142
4.3. Supported alkali oxides
The simplest and most prominent catalytic system in this class is MgO-supported Li2O.145 In general, such oxides belong to the group of non-redox-active catalysts. However, it is not yet known whether the first CH bond is activated through a single-electron process or a paired-electron process.1
The active site has been concluded to be [Li+O−], thus forming defects on the MgO surface. The fact that [Li+O−] sites possess labile O species is of special importance, because the ODH activity notably decreases upon catalyst deoxygenation. The O− species is assumed to abstract the first hydrogen atom. Evidence was found that Li+ ions formed clusters on the MgO surface, but it was concluded that the Li2O domains on MgO did not show classical redox properties.34, 146 It should be emphasized that Li+ ions that are incorporated into a MgO matrix are also active and selective and can be prepared by a sol–gel synthesis.147 The reaction is assumed to proceed through radical chain reactions, by following a homogeneous/heterogeneous reaction pathway. The catalyst essentially serves as an element to initiate the radical chain mechanism.34
In contrast to these conclusions and the assumption that [Li+O−] is the active site, Freund and co-workers concluded that the paramagnetic [Li+O−] species did not exist under the reaction conditions, because the species were not detected by EPR spectroscopy.35, 148, 149 Li+ ions have been found to introduce oxygen vacancies into the MgO matrix. At higher Li+ concentrations, Li/Mg-oxide islands and LixO surface clusters form. However, Li can desorb into the gas phase at elevated temperatures (>780 °C), thus resulting in the formation of surface defects. Therefore, despite suggesting that [Li+O−] sites may form under non-equilibrium conditions, Myrach et al. raised doubts that these are active for the ODH of ethane.35
The addition of halide anions (Cl−, Br−) further enhances activity and selectivity.31, 150, 151 The active sites in the halide-promoted materials have not been unequivocally identified. Wang et al. suggest that Li2O is the catalytically active phase,152 with LiCl forming a thin layer between the support and the catalytically active phase, which modifies the base strength and suppresses the formation of Li2CO3. Fuchs et al. concluded that the active site consisted of a Li+ cation and nucleophilic oxygen species.21 The addition of CO2 to these catalysts markedly decreases the ODH activity, thus suggesting that carbonate formation indeed blocks the active sites. Gaab et al. provided a detailed differentiation between Cl−-free and Cl−-containing catalysts.32 They postulated that hypochlorite (OCl−) anions formed in the LiCl melt, thus providing a transient, highly reactive site with dissolved O2.
Alternatively, a combined surface/gas-phase mechanism has been suggested, similar to the one for Cl−-free catalysts.6 However, this mechanism cannot explain the increasing selectivity towards ethene with temperature. A third approach invokes a surface-catalyzed pathway,32 thus suggesting that the non-selective sites are covered or dissolved in the molten overlayer.
For Cl−-free catalysts, surface ethyl radical formation and a gas phase radical reaction pathway dominate. The initial activation of ethane to form an alkyl radical in the gas phase is considered to be rate determining. However, at partial pressures of above 70 mbar, the reaction order decreases, which is attributed to saturation of the active site.
4.4. Supported alkali chlorides
Whereas supported alkali-oxide catalysts show certain disadvantages, including inhibition by CO2 and limited selectivity, materials with an overlayer of molten alkali chloride and no addition of alkali oxide have been reported to be catalytically active for the ODH of ethane.51, 67 Supported liquid-phase catalysts (SLC) are a new generation of catalysts for the ODH of ethane, which requires comparatively high reaction temperatures (around 600 °C). However, very high selectivities for ethane (up to 95 %) can be achieved. The first CH bond is cleaved homolytically in a single electron-transfer process.
Activity and selectivity have been reported for catalysts with overlayers of pure alkali chlorides and several eutectica153 of alkali chlorides, such as LiCl, KCl, NaCl, LiKCl, LiNaCl, LiSrCl, and LiBaCl, that are supported on (Dy2O3-promoted) MgO.51, 67 Whereas LiCl leads to the most active catalysts, these catalysts are also the least selective. The selectivity towards ethene inversely depends on the melting point of the chloride. A linear increase in the selectivity with temperature is observed below the melting point, whereas it remains essentially constant above the melting point. Metal cations are presumably inactive towards CH activation, but they influence the catalytic behavior of the molten chloride overlayer. The oxygen solubility is the highest for LiCl,51 whereas larger cations (Na+, K+) lead to fewer dissolved oxygen species.154, 155 Ethane solubilities in the highly polar melt are negligible.67
It has been speculated that dissolved O2 in the molten chloride reacts to form positively charged Cl atoms.1 In turn, a transient hypochlorite species (OCl−) is assumed to catalyze the ODH reaction. The hypochlorite anion itself has a high redox potential and is supposed to form at the interface between the chloride melt and the solid support [Eq. (14)].
(14)
Hypochlorite is assumed to be the transient species in low concentrations and diffuses within the melt to the surface, on which it activates the CH bond. Because those anions are surrounded by alkali cations, spatial separation occurs within the melt, which causes the active sites to be well-dispersed and prevents mutual interactions.
However, the exact mechanism is still matter of debate. Cl radicals are not thought to play a role in alkane activation, neither as initiator nor as radical-chain propagator, and the formation of HCl bonds are unlikely. A key aspect of the adsorption properties of the melt is the Lewis acidity of the cations. The addition of, for example, K+ ions, lowers the average Lewis acidity compared to that of pure Li. Thus, the improved olefin selectivity in the presence of alkali/alkali-earth chlorides of the LiClMgDyO catalyst is speculated to be associated with a decrease in the strength of the Lewis acid.
4.5. Other catalysts
One of the most promising groups of catalysts is based on Ni, Cu, and Fe (cation)-loaded Y-zeolites.156 In this case, the first CH bond is also assumed to be cleaved homolytically through a single electron transfer.
Acidic catalysts were prepared by ion exchange with metal sulfates and subsequent reduction with hydrogen. For basic catalysts, an additional ion exchange with KOH was performed. Acidic zeolites were significantly better than basic zeolites in terms of conversion and ethane selectivity. Ni-based materials showed the best performance, followed by Cu and Fe; the best catalyst (Ni on acidic Y-zeolite) showed an ethane conversion of 21 % and ethene selectivity of 75 % at 600 °C. Ethene selectivity increased with increasing temperature. With acidic zeolites, ethane oxidation (leading to ethene) dominated over ethane combustion, whereas basic zeolites favored ethane combustion.
For the ODH reactions of transition-metal-supported zeolites, two mechanisms are proposed.156 The first proposal suggests that two surface oxygen atoms react with ethane, thus forming one surface metalethoxide group and one surface hydroxy group. The metal ethoxide can then undergo two subsequent reactions, that is, α-hydrogen abstraction, thereby forming an aldehyde plus a metal hydride, or β-hydrogen abstraction, thereby leading to ethene plus a metalhydroxy group.
The second possibility is the formation of a metalethyl complex plus a surface hydroxy group after one ethane molecule reacts with one surface oxide group. Subsequently, β-hydrogen abstraction takes place, thus forming ethene plus a metal hydride. Various techniques have been applied to address the dominating mechanism,156, 157 although it could not be clarified whether the reaction took place through an ethoxyhydroxy mechanism or an ethyl radical. However, it was shown that ethoxy groups were not stable at elevated temperatures.157
Carbon materials, in particular carbon nanotubes, have also been reported to be active. However, these catalysts appear to be challenging to use and ethane conversions of below 5 % have been reported at 400 °C; the use of higher reaction temperatures is seen as problematic, because of the potential oxidation of the catalyst. This problem can be mediated by surface modification with B2O3 or P2O5, which have the positive side effect of decreasing the concentration of electrophilic oxygen species, thereby increasing the selectivity. The nature of the active sites is not defined and their concentration is too low to be successfully characterized.158
4.6. Conclusions
Table 1 provides a synopsis of a selection of active sites that have been presented in this Section (only the basic types of sites are shown). The characteristics of the sites and the specific mechanisms are compiled, together with their typical reaction temperatures and selectivities. A complete list of the referenced catalysts, including their performance, is presented in the final Section.
Table 1. Different active sites for the ODH of ethane.
Site
Type of site
Activation of first CH bond
Mechanism
Operation range [°C]
Selectivity
Reference
VO
redox
single-electron process, homolytic or paired-electron process, heterolytic
transient radicals on catalyst surface or redox cycle
430–650
10–90
38, 40
MoO
redox
single-electron process, homolytic
redox cycle
550–580
40–90
98, 100
[NiNbO]
redox
–[a]
–[a]
350–400
80–90
19, 120
CoO
non-redox
–[a]
–[a]
550
45–80
130
Sm2O3
non-redox
single-electron process, homolytic
radical chain
550–700
20–70
30
[LiMgO]
non-redox
single-electron process, homolytic
radical chain
570–650
57–75
145, 174
[OCl−]
redox
single-electron process, homolytic
525–600
80–95
51, 67
[a] Not reported or still unclear.
The redox-active site is either a cation redox pair (such as V5+/V4+) or an anion redox pair (such as OCl−/Cl−). High dilution of the sites and higher acid strength appear to promote desorption of the ethyl species and favor selectivity. The sites with metal redox functionality require lower temperatures than anion redox pairs and yield high selectivities. In particular, V- or Ni/Nb-based oxides are among those with the lowest required reaction temperatures. High reaction temperatures also face the danger of inducing a radical chain mechanism, which tends to lead to lower selectivities. Thus, temperature is one of the most critical parameters in determining whether a mechanism is purely heterogeneous (i.e., redox reactions on catalyst surfaces) or homogeneous (surface-induced gas-phase radical chain reactions).7
5. Advanced Reactor Concepts for the ODH of Ethane
Clearly, activity and selectivity in the ODH reaction not only depend on the properties of the catalyst, but are also critically influenced by the reactor. Because weakly bound oxygen species on the catalyst surfaces are thought to lead to the accelerated formation of COx species, higher O2 partial pressures lead to lower selectivity, especially with catalysts that contain metal redox pairs.9 Thus, various concepts have been investigated to limit the concentration of this species (such as membranes, cyclic reactors, and variations in the oxygen/hydrocarbon feed). In this Section, we focus on two important concepts, that is, membrane reactors and reactors with a millisecond residence time.
5.1. Membrane reactors
Two main different types of membrane reactors are known and practically implemented, that is, extractor and distributor reactors.27 After shortly introducing both concepts, we want to rationalize and discuss which type of reactor could be promising for ODH reactions.
The extractor membrane reactor separates products within the reactor to prevent consecutive reactions. For equilibrium-limited reactions, it enables higher conversions by selectively extracting the limiting reaction product, such as H2 from dehydrogenation. However, the H2-extractor membrane does not provide a solution for coking, which is a major cause of catalyst deactivation in the dehydrogenation of ethane. The removal of ethene, which leads to enhanced selectivity by avoiding consecutive reactions, is not feasible for the ODH reaction, because membranes with a sufficiently high separation factor between ethane and ethene are not known, thereby limiting the potential of the membrane extractor concept.
The distributor membrane reactor disperses a reactant across the catalyst bed, thereby avoiding high local concentrations, which is of special importance for decreasing the explosion limits with hydrocarbon/oxygen mixtures so that undiluted feed streams can be used.7 Furthermore, it has the potential to enhance product selectivity, if the distributed reactant has a higher reaction order in the undesired reaction path than the desired one, as is the case for O2 in the ODH reaction.7 Typically, interfacial membrane reactors are used, which are equipped with catalytic membranes that enable the reaction on the membrane surface.
Rodriguez et al. simulated the performance of the ODH reaction of ethane with a NiNbO catalyst that was packed into a tubular porous inorganic membrane reactor by dosing oxygen into the shell side across the membrane and ethane into the center compartment159 and they compared the results to a model conventional multitubular reactor.160 Whereas the conversion of ethane in a tubular porous inorganic membrane reactor remained about the same compared to that in a fixed-bed reactor, the selectivity for the olefin was higher. These, higher selectivities were explained by the lower local O2 partial pressures and the smaller temperature gradients that were achieved with the axial distribution of O2. The operating conditions have to be finely tuned, in particular by the addition of O2 to the ethane feed, to enhance the reaction rates. O2-permeation rates, which are higher than O2-consumption rates, lead to an unfavorable concentration profile with oxygen accumulation along the catalyst bed, thus inducing lower selectivity. On the other hand, a feed that contains a majority of oxygen in a mixture with ethane would jeopardize the enhancement by the distributor membrane because it would leads back to a quasi-conventional reactor with strongly exothermic total oxidation, lower olefin selectivity, and the appearance of “hot spots”. Concerning the membrane type, a porous membrane with a weakly temperature-dependent trans-membrane oxygen flux is apparently more amenable than dense membrane materials with their temperature-related oxygen permeation.
Iglesia et al. studied the staged feed of oxygen for the ODH of ethane with a well-known V2O5 catalyst. Similar activities have been observed compared to a regular fixed-bed reactor, despite notable differences in the local oxygen concentration. The kinetics are identical in staged and constant feeds. However, the total oxidation of the produced ethene was lower with a staged oxygen feed. Reaction studies revealed that the homogeneous part of ethene oxidation was dependent on the oxygen concentration, whereas the heterogeneous part was zero-order in oxygen.161 As the catalyst-to-volume ratio is high in industrial-scale reactors, homogeneous contributions to the whole reaction are almost negligible. Thus, the benefits of a staged oxygen feed become less important in large-scale applications by using a V2O5 catalyst.
Another study compared the performance of a similar catalyst (vanadium oxide supported on gamma-alumina) for the ODH of ethane in fixed-bed or membrane reactor configurations at high space velocities under excess oxygen.162 The conversion of ethane was higher in the packed membrane reactor, although the olefin selectivity decreased. This phenomenon is particularly important in excess oxygen, because the total oxidation of ethene is higher in the membrane reactor than in the packed-bed reactor and is related to the local O2 concentrations. In the first part of a membrane reactor, ODH is the dominant reaction. However, because this part has the longest contact time, the total oxidation of ethane also occurs. In the second part, excess oxygen leads to the total oxidation of ethene, mainly into CO. In the last part, oxygen, which is still present in excess, leads to the oxidation of ethene and CO. Given these facts, a catalyst does not always perform equally well in fixed-bed and membrane reactors. The kinetics and the contact time are key factors in influencing the catalyst performance for each reactor type.
To use another well-known ODH catalyst in an advanced reactor concept, MgO that was doped with Li and Sm2O3 was used as a packed catalyst in a reactor with oxygen dosing through a porous Al2O3 membrane.163 The Sm2O3-doped catalyst showed better performance in the membrane reactor. Limited to low ethane/O2 ratios in the feed, splitting the O2 feed gave marked improvements compared to a standard plug-flow reactor (PFR). However, this effect disappeared for higher ethane/O2 ratios,163 because it is sensitive to contact times. As the O2 feed rates increased at low feed ratios, the contact times of oxygen and ethane differed, thus, causing differences in the behavior of the reactor. However, at higher ethane/O2 feed ratios, the contact times of both reactants became similar to that of a standard PFR.
This example illustrates that staged O2 admission is beneficial for the ODH of ethane, with yields (under certain conditions) that are about three-times higher than in a fixed-bed reactor. However, the membrane reactor did not perform well at short contact times. Because long contact times and a low ethane/O2 ratio are neither productive nor likely, owing to flammability issues, this improvement is not realistic for large-scale applications, owing to a very limited parameter window.
Some membranes catalyze the ODH reaction, even without additional catalysts. However, coating those membranes with a catalytically active material enhances the performance of the membrane reactor.28 The reactions are run at around 1000 K, a temperature at which surface-modified dense membranes allow a constant supply of the catalyst with ionic oxygen (extracted from air) fed into the other side of the membrane. Perovskite membrane (BaSrCoFeO) showed outstandingly high oxygen permeation; however, the trans-membrane flow of oxygen decreased with time at lower temperatures (below about 1000 K).164
The membrane surface was modified with Pd nanoclusters or a V/MgO catalyst on the permeate side-surface. A first effect of the modification relates to changes in the oxygen permeability, as shown for V-based modification, which doubles the oxygen flow across the membrane. Ethane conversions increase linearly with temperature up to about 60 % at around 800 °C for a reactor with a bare membrane, whereas the selectivity decreased slightly with increasing temperature. The activation energy was higher for the coated membranes, but the selectivities decreased even faster. Nonetheless, a highest ethene yield (about 75 %) was achieved with a catalyst-modified membrane that showed stable performance over at least 23 days. Essential for the operation of those materials was a reasonably high oxygen flux across the membrane, which could be controlled with temperature. The membrane transports ionic oxygen, which is converted into the activated species (O2−, O−, O2−) on the catalyst surface without the presence of O2. Hence, this concept allows the fine-tuning of catalytic systems, following a Mars–Van Krevelen mechanism.27
A staged reactor concept has been introduced that combined dehydrogenation with the oxidation of the formed H2.117 A perovskite-based hollow-fiber membrane, which was made of mixed oxygen-ion electron-conducting dense BaCoFeZrO, was used to separate O2 from air. Parts of the membrane were passivated by Au, which created different reaction zones, that is, the passivated parts were dehydration zones, in which H2 and ethene were produced, whereas oxygen was transported into non-passivated parts. Conversions could reach up to 52 % with selectivities of up to 72 %. The membrane is claimed to be coke-resistant and to allow long-term operation. The performance of the reactor concept is supposed to improve upon coating one site of the membrane with a catalyst. However, the reaction is not a classical ODH reaction, because of the intermediate formation of H2.
5.2. Short-contact-time partial oxidation of ethane
Schmidt, Huff, and Holmen have utilized monoliths for the ODH of ethane at very short contact times.165, 168 By using a very short contact time of the reactant/product mixtures (about ×10−4 s) offers various advantages, including a small reactor volume and an autothermal operation mode. Typical catalysts are supported Pt and Rh. The extremely short contact times help to minimize ethene re-adsorption to enhance olefin selectivity. The activation of the first CH bond is homolytic and is thermally induced by a single-electron transfer.
The performance of short-contact-time reactors can be significantly improved by added H2 to the feed stream,11 thus increasing ethene selectivity up to 85 % with Pt and PtSn catalysts. For very low contact times (around 0.5 ms), the flow rate did not influence the selectivity. Thus, a homogeneous gas-phase mechanism can be ruled out. It is assumed that H2 is oxidized, which generates heat and consumes O2, thereby lowering the concentration of O2 that is available for total oxidation, because H2 is formed by the dehydrogenation of ethane.
Further studies have shown that the metal coating on the monolith directs the selectivity. With Pt and PtSn catalysts, ethene is mainly formed, along with CO, H2, and water as by-products. However, Rh mainly produces synthesis gas and Pd leads to severe carbon deposition.165
Three different mechanistic scenarios are discussed, that is, a completely homogeneous gas-phase mechanism, a completely heterogeneous surface mechanism, and a combination of the two, with H2 oxidation taking place on the surface and ethane dehydrogenation taking place through radicals in the gas phase. The results cannot be unequivocally described by each of these mechanisms.
One prominent way to model the reaction network on Pt-coated monoliths includes the assumption that the catalyst burns a fraction of ethane, thereby generating heat. This heat is used to form radicals that start a homogeneous gas-phase mechanism.166 The heterogeneous mechanism suggests that ethane is adsorbed, followed by dissociation into ethene and, eventually, C and H on the catalyst surface, and the subsequent oxidation of both species. However, this model cannot fully explain the catalytic chemistry if hydrogen is co-fed into the reactor. The combined surface gas-phase mechanism167 suggests that ethene is formed in the gas phase (in the case of Pt and PtSn monoliths), whereas CO, H2, and water are mainly formed on the surface.
Holmen and co-workers studied the extinction and ignition behavior of short-contact-time processes.168 During ignition and extinction, CO and CO2 were observed to be the main reaction products, together with a noticeable temperature change during these processes. These results also suggest that the ODH reaction takes place in the gas phase, whereas the by-products, that is, H2, CH4, and COx, are formed on the Pt surface. Monoliths of rare-earth metals and alkaline-earth-metal oxides are thought to follow the same reaction pathway.169, 170
The microkinetic aspects of short-contact-time ethane activation over these materials were investigated in greater detail by performing transient kinetic measurements with a focus on the nature of the active oxide species.171 It has been found that adsorbed monoatomic and diatomic oxygen species are active during the ignition of the alkane/oxygen mixture. Whereas the adsorbed monoatomic oxygen species was active for the ODH reaction, diatomic oxygen was responsible for heterogeneously catalyzed total oxidation.
Pt/Al2O3 showed a similar behavior, that is, the catalyzed combustion accelerated the ignition of ethane/oxygen mixtures under autothermal conditions, thereby also showing a homogeneous/heterogeneous mechanism.172
This result also holds true for other catalytic materials. Over oxides of non-reducible metals, heterogeneous reaction steps form adsorbed oxide species that are reactive for the ODH of ethane. Owing to the exothermic character of this reaction, the temperature of the catalytic bed rises, thus leading to the thermal dehydrogenation of ethane, which improves the overall yield of ethene.
An important improvement for short-reactor-time concepts is heat integration.173 Reverse-flow operation of a fixed-bed reactor with a coated monolith is possible (about 15 s per cycle). Whereas selectivities remain almost unchanged, conversion levels can be dramatically improved (up to about 90 %).
6. Summary and Outlook on Catalytic ODH Reactions
Table 2 and Table 3 show performance data for the catalysts and the different reactor concepts that have been introduced in this Review, respectively; the results are summarized in Figure 8. These data represent the best catalytic performance in each of the cited references, but they do not consider the space/time yield of the catalytic systems. Interestingly, the concepts with the best performance (>70 % yield of ethene) are not restricted to one class of catalyst or reactor concept, thus indicating that a multitude of possible solutions to this problem exist.
Table 2. Performance data for selected catalysts.
No.
Catalyst
T [°C]
X(C2H6) [%]
S(C2H4) [%]
Reference
1
Ni12Ce
275
10.4
59
122
2
Pt monolith
450
85
46
168
3
MoVNb
400
9
75
114
4
NiW0.36
400
54
38
122
5
NiW0.45
400
21
50
122
6
MoV0.39Te0.16Nb0.17O
380
39.8
93.9
110
7
LiMgCl/Dy2O3
570
81.3
76.2
174
8
LiZnOCl
721
82
78
146
9
V2O5/γ-Al (5.2 wt. %)
430
50
40
38
10
Co7.6/TiO2
550
22.2
60
130
11
Ni/HY
600
22
74.5
156
12
BaF2/SL1 (Sm2O3LaF3)
700
62.9
67.7
142
13
BaCl2/Ho2O3
640
56.6
67.9
141
14
CoBaCO3 (7 wt. %)
650
48
92.2
132
15
SrLaNdO
700
65.2
71.2
175
16
Li/MgO (3 %)
625
53.9
63.8
145
17
Mg/Dy/Li/O/Cl
600
60
83.3
176
18
LiMgOCl
675
11
78
152
19
LiCl/ZrON
650
94.8
71.3
177
20
NdLi/SZ
650
93
83
177
21
LiMgDyOCl
600
82
77
67
22
LiNaMgDyOCl
650
82.4
91
51
23
SrNd2O3
800
58
79
139
24
Sm2O3
700
25
60
30
25
10CaCe
750
21
100
137
26
Vox/Al (20 wt. %)
550
30
57
44
27
Ni0.85Nb0.15
400
65
70
19
28
MoVSbO
400
40
95
64
29
VOP/Ti9
550
15
70
97
30
10Val
550
37
57
42
31
M10V5
580
33.8
70.7
98
32
VCo-2
600
27.8
74.3
86
33
ClMoSiTi
600
31
36.2
107
34
CoVAPO-5
600
43.9
40.8
87
35
MgVAPO-5
600
28.7
59.7
88
36
V/Al
600
60.2
40.2
85
37
SrCl2/Sm2O3
640
80.3
70.9
143
38
SmOF
700
80.2
91.8
178
Table 3. Performance data for selected reactor concepts.
No.
Catalyst, reactor configuration
T [°C]
X(C2H6) [%]
S(C2H4) [%]
Reference
39
Pt/alumina, reverse-flow reactor
n.r.
90
60
173
40
Pt/Sn, H2 co-feed
n.r.
73
83
11
41
Rh/Pt (10 %) gauze
–[a]
34
62
179
42
Pt foam monolith
875
62
55
165
43
PBR, VOx/γ-alumina
600
70
30
162
44
V2O5/Al2O3 (2 wt. %) staged feed
n.r.
35
45
161
45
BaCoxFeyZr1−x−yO
725
100
50
180
46
BaCoxFeyZr1−x−yO, BCFZ membrane
725
64
67
181
47
V/MgO membrane
777
90
83
28
48
LaSr/CaO
1000
32
55
182
49
Na0.009CaOx
–[b]
78
72
171
[a] Surface: 900 °C, gas: 580 °C; [b] ignition: 600 °C, maximum: 927 °C.
Figure 8
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Performance of catalytic and reactor systems.
High selectivities are limited by the high olefin reactivity and the favorable thermodynamics of paraffin and olefin oxidation. As a consequence, all of the catalytic materials show some activity for the complete oxidation of paraffin and olefins. Rapid ethene desorption by adjusting the acid/base properties and limiting ethene re-adsorption by minimization of the concentrations of Lewis acid sites, as well as coupling surface-catalyzed activation of ethane with gas-phase radical-chain reactions, have been found to be the most promising concepts for catalyst and process design. Whereas membrane-based processes only show a moderate chance of success, ultrashort reactor concepts appear to be closer to their practical realization. Suitable catalysts for the ODH of ethane can be divided into two groups: In the first group, as-ideal-as-possible oxide surfaces minimize the concentration of accessible Lewis acid metal sites, which are responsible for ethene re-adsorption. In the second group, molten active components generate dynamically rearranging surfaces, which prevent the re-adsorption of the olefin by minimizing the concentration of coordinatively unsaturated metal centers.
For conventional reactor systems, catalysts that are based on complex vanadia mixed oxides and supported molten chlorides are the best choice. PtSn catalysts have been identified as the best catalysts for reactors with an ultrashort contact time. Dramatic differences in the materials emphasize how different energies of activation for the multitude of steps in the complex reaction sequence lead to very different results for the various optimal catalysts. The complexity of this reaction also makes it almost impossible to generalize the nature of the selective and unselective sites. The critical catalytic preferences will be influenced by the rates of processes in a complex matrix, which are influenced (by default) by the different energies of activation, pre-exponential factors, and the concentrations of the catalyzing sites. Thus, intermediate oxygen species could be active and selective for the ODH reaction on one catalyst, but unselective on others.
The examples shown above illustrate that a detailed understanding of the reaction mechanism, the nature of the active sites, and the reaction kinetics is essential for the design and optimization of the synthesis and catalytic properties of new catalysts. The improvement of existing reactor concepts and the realization of new concepts have to occur in a coordinated fashion. The unprecedented increase in insight into the materials properties, the strategies to synthesize these materials, the detailed chemistry of the individual reaction steps, and the fluid dynamics of advanced reactor concepts make it appear realistic that the ODH of ethane will be competitive to steam reforming in the near future.
Acknowledgements
C.G. acknowledges support from the TUM Graduate School and the Faculty Graduate Center Chemistry (FGCH), as well as valuable discussions with Prof. Angeliki Lemonidou.
Biographical Information
Christian Gärtner, born in Stuttgart (Germany), studied Chemical Engineering at the University of Stuttgart (Germany) and the University of Wisconsin, Madison (USA), where he received his MS in 2009 under the supervision of Prof. James A. Dumesic. In 2010, he received his diploma from the University of Stuttgart. Afterwards, he joined the group of Prof. Johannes A. Lercher at the Technische Universität München (Germany). His PhD work focuses on the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over supported alkali-chloride catalysts.
Biographical Information
Andre C. van Veen was born in Issum (Germany) in 1971 and studied Chemistry at the Ruhr-University in Bochum (Germany), where he received his Diploma in 1997 and his PhD in 2000 with Prof. Martin Muhler. As a Postdoctoral Researcher, he spent time at the Institut de Recherches sur la Catalyse in Villeurbanne (France) and at the Max-Planck Institut für Kohlenforschung in Mülheim (Germany). In 2010, he joined the group of Prof. Johannes A. Lercher at the Technische Universität München (Germany). His Habilitation in 2011 at the Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1 (France) focused on structured reactors for heterogeneous catalysis. He became a Lecturer at the TU München in 2012 and was later appointed as a Professor at the University of Warwick (UK).
Biographical Information
Johannes A. Lercher, born in Vienna (Austria), studied Chemistry at the Technische Universität Wien and, after a visiting lectureship at Yale University, he became a Lecturer and Associate Professor at the same institution. From 1993 to 1998, he was a Professor at the Department of Chemical Technology, University Twente. In 1998, he moved to the Department of Chemistry, TU München, where he assumed a joint appointment as the Director of the Institute for Integrated Catalysis at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory in 2011. He is member of both the Austrian Academy of Sciences and the Academia Europea. His research focuses on the fundamental aspects of sorption and catalysis on oxides and molecular sieves, the in situ characterization of catalysts and catalytic processes, and on catalysis for the sustainable synthesis of clean-energy carriers.
References
Citing Literature
1. Introduction
Ethene is one of the most important building blocks in the chemical industry. Among organic chemicals, ethene ranks first with respect to volume, with an annual worldwide production of 120×106 tons in 2008.4 Ethene is used to synthesize polymers, styrene, ethene oxide, vinyl chloride and vinyl acetate monomers, functionalized hydrocarbons (i.e., dichloroethane, ethylbenzene, acetaldehyde, and ethanol), and many other basic and intermediate products.
The direct activation and conversion of alkanes into chemicals results in more-complicated process schemes than those for the analogous processes that employ olefins.5 Nevertheless, the availability of alkanes, the increasing demand for olefins,6 and the necessity to minimize the negative environmental impact of a process7 has stimulated research into new directions.
Steam cracking, that is, high-temperature pyrolysis in the presence of diluting steam, is the most established industrial process for the manufacture of ethene. Typical feedstocks for this reaction are various grades of naphtha and components of natural gas. Different steam-cracking processes are known, depending on the length of the carbon chain in the feedstock. Although naphtha is the main feedstock for ethene production in Western Europe and Japan, natural-gas-derived feedstocks are mainly used in the United States and the Middle East. The lighter feedstocks consist of liquefied petroleum gas (that contains propane and different butanes) or ethane, propane, and butane, which originate from natural gas. For naphtha crackers, full-range naphtha (boiling point: 30–200 °C) or C6C8 cuts are typically used as feedstocks. In the Middle East, the feedstock basis has only shifted to ethane in the last decade, thus leading to attractive production costs.4 It should be mentioned in passing that the emerging availability of shale gas will markedly shift the overall picture towards processes that use light alkanes.
The recurring increase in the price of crude oil and, in particular, the availability of ethane in shale gas, has advanced the interest in alternative processes for ethene production, including the dehydration of ethanol (thus enabling the utilization of biomass-derived feeds) and the (oxidative) dehydrogenation of ethane. This latter process offers conceptual advantages and, therefore, has been the subject of substantial research activities. However, the lack of suitable catalysts that combine high activity and selectivity has prevented their industrial realization so far.
Several excellent reviews have broadly addressed ODH reactions.6–10 Because of the special role of the ODH of ethane and its potential process applications, we have decided to take a different approach. Therefore, this Review summarizes the current state of ethene production as a baseline for the potential and challenges that face the development of new processes. This Review also describes insight on the atomic and molecular levels, as well as into the ongoing developments in catalytic processes and reactor engineering.
2. Current Practice: Steam Cracking, Ethane Dehydrogenation and Ethanol Dehydration
2.1. Steam cracking
The steam cracking of hydrocarbons is the most widespread process for the industrial manufacture of ethene. Steam-diluted alkanes are converted at high temperatures (approximately 800 °C) in reactor tubes, thus leading to homogeneous pyrolysis. A wide variety of feeds with boiling points of up to 600 °C can be converted through a radical chain mechanism. Having been practiced for over 50 years, this process is now very mature. First, the feed is preheated with steam up to the initial cracking temperature (500–680 °C). Subsequently, the mixed stream is fed into a high-temperature reactor (750–875 °C) to complete the steam pyrolysis, with residence times of 0.1–0.5 s. Cracking furnaces are externally fired and the radiant tubes (or coils) have different arrangements (split coil or parallel millisecond pyrolysis).4 The feed is cracked into small olefins and di-olefins. Owing to the high reactivity of the products, the effluent has to be quenched within 0.02–0.1 s to avoid product degradation. The products are separated by a combination of distillation and absorption processes.
Steam cracking can be described by using complex kinetic models, which account for the progress of the ultrafast reactions in radical chemistry. Parameters that influence the performance and product distribution are residence time, the partial pressures of the feedstock and steam, and the process temperature (profile) in the reactor. Typical hydrocarbon-conversion levels reach 70 %,4 with olefin yields of around 50 % by using ethane as a feedstock, whereas single-pass conversion yields are lower in naphtha crackers.
Because the process operates at very high temperatures with high reactant streams, the requirements on the equipment are demanding. Suitable materials have to be heat-resistant, because temperatures up to 1100 °C are reached in the reaction tubes. Given the importance of heat management, the sophistication of the engineering of heat exchangers is crucial and involves great effort.
Although it is the industry standard for ethene production, steam cracking has disadvantages. It is a highly energy-intensive process; the total energy demand of the produced ethene is 16 GJ t−1 in the case of ethane as a feedstock and 23 GJ t−1 if naphtha is used as a feedstock.4 A part of the light effluent from the product gas stream has to be combusted to provide heat, thereby leading to the formation of CO2 and NOx. Per ton of ethene, 1–1.6 t CO2 are produced through this external heating.4 In addition, notable amounts of coke are formed on the inside reactor walls, thus requiring periodic reactor shut-down for maintenance and coke removal11 by air and steam gasification, because mechanical coke removal is not possible.
2.2. Dehydrogenation of ethane
The catalytic dehydrogenation of alkanes has been industrially applied since the 1930s. The strongly endothermic and equilibrium-limited process, [Eq. (1)], is performed in fixed-bed reactors.
(1)
Thermodynamic reasons make the use of high temperatures and low pressures mandatory.12 For instance, at atmospheric pressure, reaction temperatures of 550 °C and 700 °C are required to reach ethane equilibrium conversions of 10 % and 40 %, respectively. High pressures shift the equilibrium toward ethane.
Typical catalysts are based on Cr (i.e., chromiaalumina) or Pt.12, 13 The major challenges are the suppression of side reactions and the formation of a suitable pellet shape of the catalysts, which ensure efficient feed distribution and minimize pressure drop. Consecutive side reactions lead to the formation of dienes, polymers, and coke.12 Coke removal from the catalyst during the frequent regeneration is required to maintain acceptable catalyst lifetimes.
Regular catalyst regeneration occurs by oxidation and the associated heat of combustion can be recovered in a straightforward manner, especially if several catalyst beds are operated in parallel. One of the first commercial dehydrogenation processes by using chromiaalumina, Catadiene, was employed for butadiene production, by using a parallel fixed-bed arrangement of reactors, which are operated in swing mode to alternate the dehydrogenation and coke removal.
In the late 1980s, the development of new processes broadened the application range to the production of propene from propane. Catofin employs dehydrogenation and catalyst regeneration in a swing mode that is similar to the Catadiene process. An adiabatic fixed-bed reactor is used and pre-heated propane is fed into the reactor, with cooling as the reaction proceeds along the reactor.14 In the early 1970s, the continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) concept was introduced by UOP; the associated process used an adiabatic fluidized-bed reactor (UOP Oleflex).10, 12 However, ethane dehydrogenation by using this route could not compete with steam cracking because of the relatively low activity of the catalysts, thus leading to low single-pass yields.
2.3. Dehydration of ethanol
The industrial production of ethanol from biomass, in particular in Brazil, has made it an available commodity for its introduction as a fuel additive or hydrocarbon substitute.15, 16 Thus, the dehydration of ethanol, [Eq. (2)], seems feasible as a niche route to olefins in certain locations.14 The mildly endothermic dehydration is catalyzed at around 300 °C by using solid acids4 and selectivities of over 99 % are possible.
(2)
Although the reaction was performed for a long time with homogeneous catalysts (sulfuric and phosphoric acid), heterogeneous catalysts, such as alumina, silica, and other solid acid catalysts, have now largely replaced homogeneous catalysts.17, 18
The process layout is straightforward. Ethanol is heated and fed into the catalytic reactor, followed by a gas/liquid separator, which splits the product stream into a liquid stream that contains ethanol and water and a gas stream that mainly contains ethene. The ethene stream has to be purified in several stages. Compared to steam cracking, this process consumes less energy and the production of carbon and nitrous oxides is decreased.4
3. Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane: Mechanistic Considerations
In contrast to the above-mentioned processes, the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane (ODH) has not been implemented on a large scale yet. Its conceptual advantage over dehydrogenation, that is, high ethane conversion, potentially lower reaction temperatures (about 400–600 °C) as compared to steam cracking, and the fact that the reaction is exothermic, has spurred growing interest in this process [Eq. (3)].
(3)
Short-chain alkanes, in particular ethane that is extracted from conventional natural gas and shale gas, are cheap and abundant and, thus, is a suitable feedstock for oxidative dehydrogenation.19 However, major practical differences are required compared to the established steam cracking. Firstly, O2 is added to the feed, thus imposing additional safety measures to prevent the thermal runaway of the reaction and consequential explosions. Secondly, the development of suitable catalysts is particularly challenging, because the olefin products tend to be more reactive than the reacting alkanes. This relatively higher reactivity of the olefins is attributed to enhanced additional directed bonding to most catalytic surfaces, whereas alkanes interact almost exclusively through dispersion forces.1
Because ethane is converted into ethene through dehydrogenation, some total oxidation, thus forming CO and CO2, as well as water, may take place. This latter reaction pathway originates from oxygen insertion into the CH bond during the primary activation or from the addition of oxygen to ethene, as shown in Figure 1. Because the latter reaction could involve oxygen anions or electrophilic oxygen atoms, it is important to prevent the re-adsorption of ethene and to separate it from O2. Whereas such oxygenates are intermediates on the route to total oxidation, many of the targeted uses of, for example, ethene, such as polymerization, require very high purity of the olefins.20
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
ODH reaction of ethane with side reactions.
Almost-complete selectivity for a single olefin is only feasible with ethane as feedstock, because ethene is the only possible dehydrogenation product and it is sufficiently unreactive towards oxygen addition. The hydrogenolytic CC bond cleavage of ethane or ethene, which results in the formation of CH4, is a highly structure-sensitive reaction and, hence, unlikely under most conditions.21
In contrast, this result does not hold true in the case of propene. Nevertheless, the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane is possible,22 but the yields of propene are low because the allylic structure that is formed upon further hydrogen abstraction from propene favors further oxidation,6 thus leading to oxygenated by-products and, eventually, COx.23
The various reactivities of the reactants and the products can be better understood by considering their CH bond energies. Whereas the weakest CH bond in ethane has a bond energy of 419.5 kJ mol−1, its analogue in propane has a value of 401.3 kJ mol−1. However, the weakest CH bond in ethene has an energy of 444 kJ mol−1 compared to 360.7 kJ mol−1 in propene. A more distinct difference can be seen in terms of the weakest CC bond, which has a bond energy of 720 kJ mol−1 in ethene, because the only CC bond is a double bond, compared to 413.8 kJ mol−1 in propene, in which the weakest CC bond is a single bond. In general, to achieve high selectivities, it is mandatory that the weakest CH or CC bond in the olefin is less than 30 kJ mol−1 weaker than the weakest CH bond in the reacting paraffin.24 This result is true for ethane and ethene, but not for propane and propene.
As a consequence, the ODH of ethane is a promising route with potentially high selectivity.10, 25 The reported exploratory approaches range from catalyst development to combining high activity and selectivity, that is, to tailor the catalyst, in such a way that it favors hydrogen abstraction, as well as minimizing oxygen insertion,8, 26 to new reactor concepts.11, 27, 28 The emerging paradigm is that the development of suitable catalysts requires fundamental insight into the reaction mechanism on a molecular level, including the details of the interactions with the catalytic surfaces and the associated gas-phase reactions.7
Because a very diverse range of catalytic materials have been reported, we will first describe the catalytic chemistry of the ODH of ethane on these materials, with an emphasis on the understanding of the catalytically active site. The mechanism and catalytic performance of selected catalysts are discussed with respect to the overall performance, as well as with respect to the applied reaction conditions. The materials explored include transition-metal, rare-earth-metal, and alkali metal oxides, as well as supported alkali chlorides. The optimal reaction conditions for these classes of catalysts differ because of differences in their catalytic activity, which, for practical reasons, are compensated for by varying the reaction temperature. Because it is rationalized that the first CH activation is rate determining in most cases, we start by discussing the activation of the first CH bond.
3.1. CH activation and cleavage
Overall, the CH cleavage steps can occur either homolytically or heterolytically, with homolytic bond cleavage dominant.
3.1.1. Single-electron processes
Homolytic CH bond rupture involves unpaired electrons and, hence, in most cases, higher energy barriers than elementary steps that involve paired electrons. Moreover, it has to be induced thermally (which can be aided by CH bond polarization) or by radicals.29 Figure 2 shows a typical one-electron process, inducing a radical chain mechanism for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Single-electron process for CH bond activation (adapted from Ref. 1).
The high energy barriers that are involved in the single-electron process have disadvantages compared to surface catalytic processes. The involvement of free radicals may induce further gas-phase reactions, which are complex to control. In ethane conversion, for example, butanes may form by the recombination of ethyl radicals. Figure 2 shows a good example, because H2O2 that is formed transiently may decompose into two OH. radicals, which would further enhance the reaction rate by creating new radical cycles.
The concentration of alkyl radicals and their reactivity depend on the reaction temperature. Catalytically, one route for the generation of alkyl radicals involves their formation on the active surface. Especially at elevated temperatures, the radical is released into the gas phase, in which it reacts further. A second possibility is that alkyl radicals react close to the catalytic surface, such as in the boundary layer. The third possibility is that the radical reacts quickly while it is still adsorbed on the catalyst surface, that is, it undergoes conversion into the corresponding olefin through β-elimination or reaction with carbon oxides through attack by adsorbed unselective oxygen species.7
Some examples of catalysts that generate radicals on the surface, with free-radical processes prevailing in the gas phase, include rare-earth oxides and alkali oxides.30–32 Leveles et al. exemplified this mechanism for the ODH of propane on MgO-supported Li2O.33, 34 Their study showed that alkanes were activated on the catalyst surface in the rate-determining step, thus producing alkyl radicals. However, the overall reaction was markedly influenced by gas-phase chemistry.
Despite the large number of contributions to this area, the nature of the active site that abstracts the H atom is still debated.35 A likely model suggests that [Li+O−] acts as the active site to generate the radicals by abstracting a hydrogen atom and forming an OH− group [Eq. (4)].1
(4)
The alkyl radicals start a chain reaction in the gas phase that leads to the olefin and further radicals. It should be emphasized that, in the absence of O2, hydrogen and methyl radicals are the chain propagators with iso- and n-propyl radicals the main acting species. In the presence of O2, the hydroperoxyl radical is the main chain propagator and it exists in higher concentrations than radicals that are formed in the absence of O2 [Eq. (5)].
(5)
The hydroperoxyl radical activates hydrocarbons, thus forming H2O2 [Eq. (6)].
(6)
The latter product decomposes into two hydroxyl radicals, which act as the main chain propagators36 and react with hydrocarbons to form water [Eq. (7.1) and (7.2)].
(7.1)
(7.2)
O2 regenerates the surface OH− species [Eq. (8.1) and (8.2)].
(8.1)
(8.2)
Alternatively, regeneration occurs through the ready elimination of water from the surface at elevated reaction temperatures. However, the surface hydroxyl groups are only part of the cycle and do not have catalytic properties.33, 37
Whereas in the prior example, the radical that was formed on the surface initiated a gas-phase process, homolytic CH cleavage on the catalyst surface may also be followed by propagation on the catalyst surface.38 Hence, oxidation reactions in microporous materials, such as zeolites or redox-active oxides, may be controlled by surface free-radical reactions. Examples of catalysts that follow this pathway are vanadium or cobalt species in zeolites1 or on oxide surfaces.38 The catalyst initiates the reaction by the activation of the first CH bond through the generation of an ethyl radical. This species reacts quickly on the surface, thereby acting as a chain propagator. Sauer and co-workers showed that the formation of transient radicals on an oxide surface is energetically favored over gas-phase reactions.39 However, there are indications that this way of activating the first CH bond, that is, through a single-electron process, is unique for V-containing catalysts.40 The absence of radical processes that propagate into the gas phase, that is, the fact that the reaction is confined to the catalytic surface, leads to better control of the reaction and results in enhanced olefin selectivity.
V- and Ni-containing catalysts also undergo single-electron-transfer processes, but this will be addressed later.
3.1.2. Processes that involve paired electrons
In contrast to single-electron processes for the ODH of ethane, several catalytic mechanisms involve the simultaneous transfer of two electrons. In these cases, the first CH bond is cleaved heterolytically and a redox pair of one or more metal oxides is involved. In general, the heterolytic cleavage of a CH bond requires strongly basic sites on the catalyst surface to facilitate proton abstraction. A nucleophilic lattice oxygen atom of a basic oxide can serve as such a site.8 It is disputed whether the heterolytic splitting can be facilitated by electrophilic metal cations.26 Figure 3 shows a typical catalytic cycle, which involves the transfer of an electron pair, taking a molybdenum oxide as an example. Vanadium-based catalysts can follow the same type of paired-electron mechanism.
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Redox cycle over Mo, which involves a paired electron transfer (adapted from Ref. 3).
3.2. Active sites for the ODH of ethane
Having shown that sites with single or paired electrons may be involved in the oxidative hydrogen-abstraction step, let us turn to the catalytically active sites. Sites for the ODH reactions of alkanes can be grouped into those that contain redox-active metal cations and those that involve anions in the redox cycle.
3.2.1. Redox-active metal oxides
Most of the catalysts that have been reported to be active for the ODH of ethane fall into this category. The ODH of ethane on such materials follows a Mars–van Krevelen41 mechanism. In a polar route, ethane reacts with a metal-oxide species and forms an ethoxyhydroxy pair (Figure 3). After the activation of the β-H atom, ethene is formed and desorbs from the catalyst, thereby leaving a dihydroxy species behind. Water is eliminated from the dihydroxy species, thereby reducing the metal oxide.3 The reduced metal oxide is subsequently re-oxidized by gas-phase O242.
The cleavage of the first CH bond may occur homolytically or heterolytically. The most prominent catalysts are based on vanadium oxide,9, 38, 43 with γ-Al2O3 or SiO2 as typical supports.44, 45 The oxidic support is not involved in the redox cycle; however, it does influence the activity and lability of the oxygen atoms that are associated with V.46 Three types of available metaloxide bonds can be distinguished, that is, terminal vanadyloxygen bonds, bridging oxygen atoms between two V cations, and bridging O atoms between a V cation and the support. The isolated VO4 species in Figure 4 shows terminal VO bonds and bridging oxygen bonds between a V atom and the support. The polymeric VO4 species show additional VO bonds, which bridge between two V atoms. Two questions, that is, which of the oxygen atoms participate in the critical first CH bond activation and what is the structure of the active site, have been vividly debated, without reaching an unequivocal conclusion.1
Figure 4
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Different surface vanadium species (adapted from Ref. 1).
Ethane can be activated at redox-active metal centers that involve either one or two centers. The first possibility is that ethane interacts with the oxygen atoms that are coordinated to one metal cation, as shown in Figure 3. In this case, two terminal MO bonds are involved in the ODH of ethane through the transfer of paired electrons. V2O5-based catalysts with higher V2O5 loadings, which form polyvanadate species (e.g., 2 wt. % V2O5 on Al2O32), are believed to operate through a mechanism in which paired metal centers undergo a single-electron reduction (in this case from V5+ to V4+).2 Two neighboring metal sites actively cooperate in the ODH reaction; however, only one of them performs the first CH cleavage. This mechanism is shown in Figure 5. The other possibility is the cooperation between two neighboring redox sites or materials, which involves two or more different anions. However, in this case, the two redox centers must have different oxidation states. This mechanism is mainly known from selective oxidation of butane,1, 47 but may also be applied to the ODH of ethane.
Figure 5
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Mechanism of the ODH reaction over V2O5-based catalysts (S=support, adapted from Ref. 2).
For the ODH of ethane, it is known that neighboring surface vanadia species lead to enhanced reducibility and, hence, also to increased reactivity.
Figure 6 shows a mechanism that involves two redox centers with oxidation numbers +4 and +5. In this case, initial CH activation occurs through heterolytic cleavage.
Figure 6
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Cooperation between two redox sites (adapted from Ref. 1).
3.2.2. Catalysts with non-redox-active metals
The ODH of ethane through homolytic activation of the CH bonds without a change in the oxidation state of the metal is also possible. In that case, the anion (in most cases halogens) assumes the role of the redox-active element. Depending on the temperature, this process may formally involve single or paired electrons. These two possibilities cannot be differentiated if the bond-breaking and -forming steps occur without charge separation.
The first concept in this chapter is an indirect route to oxidative dehydrogenation, which is realized by the halogenation of CH4 followed by radical formation or acid-catalyzed elimination and subsequent CC coupling on LaCl3-based catalysts. In particular, HCl and HBr are suitable for such transient halogenations.1 Of course, ethane can also be directly halogenated and induced to eliminate HX.48–50 In this case, the formation of vinyl chloride has been observed.
Mechanistically, O2, in combination with HX, leads to the formation of positively charged halogen atoms on the catalyst surface. Subsequently, the hydrogen atom in the first CH bond undergoes electrophilic substitution. To complete the catalytic cycle, water is eliminated in the next step, by combining one H atom from the alkane and one from HCl, thus replenishing the transferred Cl− ion. This process involves unpaired electrons, but not radical gas-phase reactions. However, the resulting overall chemistry only differs very subtly from free-radical reactions.
LaCl3-based catalysts are ideally suited to produce chlorinated species because of the suitable strength of the LaCl bond. If the strength of the metalchloride bond is stronger, similar catalytic chemistry can be realized, but the chloride transfer is dramatically decreased and olefins appear as the primary products.
The second concept comprises a related catalytic route, which involves halogen species that are based on supported alkali chlorides. Ethane activation over these catalysts most likely involves the decomposition of hypochlorite at the surface, thus forming .O− and .Cl radicals [Eq. (9)].51
(9)
Subsequently, H is homolytically abstracted from adsorbed ethane, thus resulting in the formation of a hydroxy group and an ethyl radical, which recombine to afford ethyl chloride. This result can also be interpreted as transient halogenation [Eq. (10)].
(10)
The next step can proceed through two routes. One possibility is that the ethyl chloride decomposes, thereby forming the olefin and water, with the release of Cl−. In a later step, Cl− can undergo a new oxidation step [Eq. (11)].
(11)
The other possibility would be a ClC bond formation on the surface, thus leading to subsequent homolytic cleavage, with the release of an ethyl radical. This route would start a gas-phase radical mechanism33, 34 [Eq. (12)].
(12)
It is also conceivable that two H atoms are eliminated in a concerted manner by hypochlorite anions that themselves are formed upon the concerted reaction of O2 with LiCl.1 The hydrogen abstraction leads to the reduction of the hypochlorite anion back into chloride, according to Equations (13.1), (13.2), and (13.3).
(13.1)
(13.2)
(13.3)
To complete the list of catalysts that follow this pathway, rare-earth oxides30 and LiDyMg mixed oxides21 also have to be addressed, even though they do not contain halogen atoms; they will be explained in detail later on.
A third reaction pathway is realized by catalysts that are able to form peroxo species,52, 53 such as vanadium oxides. Conceptually, V2O5 should allow the formation of such peroxo species.53 In such a pathway, the vanadium cation itself does not have any redox functionality; Figure 7 shows how the oxidation state of the involved oxygen atoms changes instead. Peroxovanadate species catalyze such a single-site mechanism. CH bonds on both carbon atoms of ethane are attacked through homolytic cleavage, followed by the formation of ethene and two hydroxyl groups on the V atom. Subsequently, water is eliminated and the VO bond is formed again.
Figure 7
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
ODH reactions with peroxovanadate species.
However, V is known to form various metaloxide bonds in various structural environments, as discussed above.54 Raman and UV/Vis studies have shown that peroxo species may not generally form on certain supports, such as silica, but are conceivable in organometallic compounds.55 Furthermore, higher concentrations of Vperoxo moieties can only form at very low temperatures (90 K),53 which are not realistic for the ODH of ethane.
DFT calculations have shown that peroxo species can form on V2O5 surfaces. However, the substitution of O2 by N2O as an oxidizing agent (described in more detail in Section 3.3.3) disables the formation of peroxovanadates. It is likely that vanadyl species are active and selective for the ODH reaction, whereas peroxo-forming sites are unselective.56
3.3. Factors that govern the activity and selectivity of ODH catalysts
3.3.1. Metaloxygen bond strength
One important parameter, especially for redox-active catalysts, is the strength of the metaloxygen bond in the active site; more specifically, its strength and its variation with the degree of reduction in a catalytic cycle.57 As the strength of this bond varies, the activity and selectivity of an oxidation catalyst will pass through a maximum in terms of the formation rate of the partial oxidation product, that is, in the specific case discussed here, the formation rate of olefins. Such a relation is called a “volcano” relationship.
If the metaloxygen bond is weak, the catalyst is active (e.g., condensed supported vanadium-oxide clusters) but not very selective, because multiple oxidation steps are facile.58 As the bond strength increases (e.g., smaller clusters of supported vanadia), the reactivity will gradually decrease, but the selectivity will increase.59 For example, silica supports lead to the highest selectivity of VO species, because no polymeric vanadia species can be observed.5
If one site contains more than one oxygen atom in an optimal material, the release of the second oxygen atom after the initial reduction step is much more difficult than the first, for example, in a material with a metal site that is in a high oxidation state combined with a non-reducible oxide site.60
Even if the support is not directly involved in most redox catalysts for the ODH of ethane, its acid/base properties may play the role of a mediator of the redox-active cluster. A more-acidic support increases the metaloxygen bond strength in the redox-active cluster, whereas a more-basic oxide decreases it. This trend can be illustrated with vanadium on a series of different supports, in which an increasing acidity is correlated with decreasing activity and increasing olefin selectivity (V2O5/MgO<V2O5/MgO+Al2O3<V2O5/Al2O3).5
3.3.2. Functionality of the active sites and the cooperation between phases
ODH is a complex reaction that requires the active sites to possess multiple qualities. It has to be able to adsorb and chemisorb the alkane, to facilitate the abstraction of two hydrogen atoms, to be re-oxidized by oxygen from the gas phase, and to desorb the produced olefin.57 Typical vanadate or molybdate anions are capable of performing multiple reaction steps, as depicted in the examples above. However, highly effective catalysts exist that consist of two phases, which act in a concerted manner, with the two phases in close spatial proximity to one another.
The most prominent example of this phenomenon is the combination of V2O5 and molybdate sites by depositing V2O5 clusters onto a polymolybdate surface that is supported on alumina.1, 61 Whereas V2O5 is still considered to be the active center, Mo seems to decrease the polarity of the metaloxygen bonds and, hence, increase the acidic character of the surface without changing the nature of the active V2O5 site. Increasing the V2O5 content up to one monolayer increased the selectivity for ODH over total oxidation reactions. The ratio between the total oxidation and the ODH reaction was notably lower than with V2O5 that was supported on Al2O3 without the molybdates. The presence of the molybdate decreased the interactions between the V cations and the olefin product, thus leading to accelerated olefin desorption and, hence, higher selectivities.1
3.3.3. Role of O2 and the density of sites
A comprehensive study that compared O2 and N2O as oxidants was reported by Kondratenko et al.62 This study on vanadia that was incorporated into MCM-41 also nicely pointed out the importance of site isolation and the influence of the density of active sites. The use of N2O instead of O2 resulted in lower activity, as explained by the fact that N2O had a lower ability to re-oxidize the VOx sites from the reduced state caused hydrogen abstraction and water elimination. Because the elementary steps of the reaction are independent of the oxidant and the same oxygen lattice species are formed regardless whether O2 or N2O is used, the steady-state concentration of lattice oxygen atoms must account for the difference in reactivity. Not only is the olefin selectivity markedly higher if N2O is used as an oxidant, the decrease in olefin selectivity with increasing activity also becomes less notable with N2O as an oxidant compared to O2. Because N2O tends to re-oxidize the reduced vanadia sites more slowly than O2, the concentration of those sites is lower, thus lowering the probability that more than two labile lattice oxygen atoms exist per site. More labile oxygen atoms per site favor unselective total oxidation reactions and eliminate the possibility that adsorbed oxygen species are in spatial proximity to the vanadia centers (but not incorporated into the lattice),63 which might enhance total oxidation.
3.3.4. Desorption and re-adsorption of ethane
Because olefins are more reactive than alkanes, ethene shows a higher affinity, as well as higher reactivity, with most surfaces than ethane. Hence, the re-adsorption of the formed olefin on the catalytic surface limits the selectivity. The stepwise addition of oxygen is frequently followed by decarbonylation or decarboxylation on acid catalysts. Therefore, the addition of oxygen, which leads to products such as acetaldehyde or acetic acid, will, in turn, enhance the selectivity for total oxidation. Because the re-adsorption of olefins is linked to the presence of accessible metal cations (Lewis acid sites), their presence has to be minimized. Three options exist to accomplish this goal:
The first option is to use oxides with low specific surface areas, thereby minimizing the concentration of accessible Lewis acid sites. Thus, catalysts with high crystallinity show excellent selectivities in the ODH of ethane,64, 65 as well as in other oxidation reactions,66 because they expose a limited number of unselective sites.
The second concept relies on surfaces that dynamically rearrange to prevent the exposure of cations, such as a supported molten chloride overlayer. The mobility of the melt prevents the formation of defect sites (coordinatively unsaturated metal cations), which are speculated to initiate the reactions that lead to deep oxidation. In a melt, the surface re-arranges, thereby quickly limiting the concentration of these exposed cations by covering the transiently present exposed cations.51, 67 The fact that predominantly anions that are not able to attack the double bond of the olefin are present on the outer surface further enhances the benefits of a molten overlayer.
A third concept to improve product desorption is site isolation, which increases the selectivity for partial-oxidation products68 by restricting the local availability of oxygen. Thus, labile lattice oxygen or ensembles of atoms that contain a redox-active site need to be spatially isolated. As pointed out above, active sites with more than two labile lattice oxygen atoms facilitate oxygen insertion before desorption, thus eventually leading to COx species.63 Thus, a good distribution of labile oxygen atoms and the limitation of the number of oxygen atoms per site help to prevent total oxidation.60 On the other hand, single oxygen atoms on a catalytic surface are inactive or prone to the generation of allyl radicals, which react further in the gas phase.57, 68 Therefore, two labile oxygen atoms per site appear to be optimal for the highly selective ODH of alkanes.
4. Groups of ODH Catalysts
Having discussed the elementary steps in the ODH process, we now turn to the description of potential catalysts that are suitable for oxidative dehydrogenation. This discussion should help to relate the potential elementary steps of reactions to specific examples of catalysts. Special attention will be paid to the structures of the active sites on different catalysts for the ODH of ethane and the common properties and differences between the various classes of catalysts.
4.1. Transition-metal oxides
4.1.1. Vanadium-oxide-based systems
Supported vanadium-oxide-based catalysts are the most intensively studied of these systems. The V cations may change their oxidation state between +III, +IV, and +V,1, 69 thus making the catalysts redox active, but they can also form ODH-active peroxo species.53 In this case, the cation does not change its oxidation state. It is debated whether or not the activation of the first CH bond occurs through paired- or single-electron transfer with these catalysts.
In particular, UV/Vis and Raman spectroscopy70, 71 showed that vanadium oxide was present in the form of distinct species. VOx sites exist in their isolated or polymeric forms, either as a 2D layer of interconnected tetrahedral vanadate clusters (VO43−) that are connected through corners38, 72 or as dimeric pyrovanadate clusters (V2O74−) that are connected through an oxygen atom, as shown in Figure 4.73
To optimize the catalytic performance and to explore the reaction mechanism, many parameters, including the dispersion of the vanadate centers, the support material (thus potentially altering the acid/base properties of the catalyst), and the addition of dopants or promoters, were systematically varied. The most important parameter was the variation of the dispersion of vanadium oxide on the support, which may markedly influence the reactivity of the catalyst.74
Because a consensus has not been reached on whether terminal VO bonds or bridging VOAl bonds form the catalytically active site, let us now introduce the two different leading paradigms, as exemplified by different experimental approaches and results, followed by their specific interpretations.
Martinez-Huerta et al.42 studied a vanadia catalyst that was supported on γ-Al2O3 by using temperature-programmed reduction, in situ Raman, IR, UV/Vis diffuse reflectance, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, combined with kinetic measurements. By synthesizing isolated and polymeric VOx species, as well as crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, their combination of physicochemical and catalytic measurements allowed important conclusions regarding the active site to be drawn.
Whereas at low sub-monolayer vanadia loadings, only isolated surface species with three VO-support bonds and one terminal VO bond were found, an increase in the vanadia loading resulted in the formation of polymeric vanadia species with only one VO-support bond, one VO terminal bond, and two VO bridging bonds. Only once a surface monolayer of vanadia was present were 3D V2O5 nanoparticle crystallites formed on top of the surface monolayer.75 The catalysts with higher vanadia loading (mostly polymeric surface vanadia species) showed the lowest reduction temperatures and, thus, the most reducible. The reduction of isolated surface vanadia species was more difficult for V2O5 nanoparticles. Interestingly, the VO bond of the vanadia species becomes stronger with increasing coverage (shift from 1010 to 1023 cm−1 for the main peak in the Raman spectra), even though the reducibility of the polymeric surface vanadia species was the lowest. Thus, one may conclude that the rate-determining reduction step cannot be influenced by the terminal VO bond, thus suggesting that the terminal VO bond is not the primary active site for the ODH of ethane.
Increasing the surface concentration of vanadia species, which resulted in a higher concentration of bridging VOV bonds, did not change the catalytic activity, thus suggesting that those bonds were not catalytically active for ethane activation.76, 77 Because crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles tend to catalyze total oxidation, the lower selectivity at high V loading can be explained by the presence of such nanoparticles. However, it should be kept in mind that the V2O5 nanoparticles might undergo a solid-state reaction with the support at higher temperatures, thus forming AlVO4 as a new phase. In turn, this reaction would decrease the number of V-free Al2O3 sites, thereby decreasing the trend for total oxidation.42
Thus, it was concluded that, in supported surface vanadium oxide, neither the terminal VO bond, the bridging VOV bond, nor V2O5 nanoparticles were active in the ODH reaction.42 Thus, according to that rationale, the bridging VOAl bond was the only option left and, therefore, was inferred to be the active site in this catalytic system. Other authors have accepted this argument, especially the aspect that the bridging VOV site cannot be active for the initial CH bond cleavage in the ODH of ethane.1
DFT calculations by using well-defined vanadia clusters with the metal oxidation state +5 have been found to be an excellent approach for obtaining a more in-depth insight into the reactivity.78, 79 Evaluation of the energy barriers leads to the conclusion that a hydrogen atom is abstracted through cleavage of the VO terminal bond, with the formation of transient radicals and, subsequently, a CV bond.39, 78, 79 A bridging oxygen atom could abstract the second hydrogen atom in this case, thus resulting in ethene formation. One drawback of this theoretical experiment is that the VO-support bond is not present in the model vanadia cluster. Thus, further DFT calculations were performed by using a V-substituted silsequioxane cluster with bridging oxygen atoms between the V atoms and the support cations.79 DFT calculations showed that, even in the presence of VO-support bonds, the terminal VO (vanadyl) bond was the only active species for the activation and cleavage of the first CH bond.
To summarize, a consensus exists within the literature that the bridging VOV bond cannot be responsible for the activation of the first CH bond. However, some discrepancies still exist between theory and experiment, that is, whether the terminal VO bond or the VO-support bond is the site for the activation of the first CH bond.
The concept of site isolation assumes a special role in this context. Apparently, the spatial proximity of two—but not more—vanadia centers is essential. This result agrees with the hypothesis that the bridging VOV bond does not boost the initial CH bond activation in the ODH reaction, but facilitates the second H abstraction. Thus, an ensemble of two vanadium centers seems to be the active site, regardless of whether the VO terminal bond or the VO-support bond acts as the active site.
An investigation of the influence of different V loadings showed that, in accordance with expectations, higher V loading on γ-Al2O3 resulted in increased activity and improved ethene selectivity.42 This result can be explained by the fact that V-free Al2O3 cation sites exist on this catalyst, which are reported to be inactive for ODH but to catalyze the total oxidation of the olefin, mainly into CO. Thus, the acid sites of γ-Al2O3 mainly contribute to the acidity of the supported catalyst at low V loadings, whereas the vanadate compounds are mainly responsible for the acidity at higher V loadings. However, in this case, only the vanadia-related acid sites are responsible for product degradation towards carbon oxides.42 The overall activity increased with the total concentration of acidic sites and with the electronegativity of the dopants.80
However, there is an upper vanadia-loading limit beyond which the ODH yield decreases. Whereas the sites on Al2O3 should be covered at such loadings, as-formed V2O5 particles catalyze the total oxidation of ethene into CO.42 Neither acid/base properties nor the chemical composition show pronounced effects on the ODH yield.
The presence of vanadia-free Al2O3 sites leads to the question of whether other supports might be more appropriate. Indeed, the activity of supported-vanadia-based catalysts strongly depends on the interactions with the oxide support, as well as on the structure of the support.81
The dispersion and formation of the active sites are influenced by the nature of the support material. A comparison between γ-Al2O3 and SiO2 nicely illustrates this fact: γ-Al2O3 is a better support than SiO2, owing to the better dispersion of vanadium oxide and the coordination of the V cations. Its acidic character plays a less important role in this case.38 As discussed above, the active site (two oxygen-bridged tetrahedrally coordinated V cations) are preferentially formed on γ-Al2O3. These sites can be more easily reduced by ethane than the tetrahedrally coordinated vanadate monomers, which are mainly formed on the SiO2 support, and the octahedrally coordinated V species in pure V2O5.38
Another proposed support is hexagonal mesoporous silica (HMS).82 However, the influence of the V loading on the catalytic performance was explored with respect to the ODH of propane. Up to 3.2 wt. % V, the ODH activity increased with the V content. Above 3.2 wt. % V, the reaction selectivity and yield decreased. This result can be explained by the detection and characterization of different surface vanadium-oxide species by temperature-programmed reduction with H2 and UV/Vis spectroscopy, specifically: 1) Monomeric V species in tetrahedral coordination (VO4) that are active and selective in the ODH reaction; 2) oligomeric and distorted tetrahedral vanadium-oxide species (both up to 3.2 wt. % V) that are highly active but less selective; and 3) aggregated vanadium-oxide clusters with octahedral coordination (VO6) that have low activity and selectivity. These results confirm that a high V dispersion is crucial for catalytic performance. Moreover, in this case, the spatial separation of the vanadate centers (site isolation) is a key feature in determining activity and selectivity.57, 68
Another potential catalyst support for vanadate species is the inexpensive and relatively stable MgO and this catalyst has been the subject of several studies.77, 80, 83 Klisinska et al. studied catalysts with a formal concentration of 1.5 monolayers of vanadium oxide and compared MgO to SiO2 as a support. Dopants, such as K, P, Ni, Cr, Nb, and Mo, influenced the acid/base and redox properties but did not markedly impact on the structure of the catalysts. MgO-supported catalysts formed magnesium orthovanadate (Mg3V2O8)83 as a sole V-containing species that was either present in an amorphous bulk phase or in a thin layer on the support. Only Lewis acid sites were detected on these materials. Their concentration increased with the electronegativity of the dopant. Although the activities of the catalysts could not be correlated to their acid/base properties, their selectivity depended on the dopant. The main by-product in the ODH of ethane was CO2, whereas CO was only formed in trace amounts.
As MgO is known to have basic sites and vanadate species, together with the fact that pure V2O5 des not show any basic sites,43 the surface acidity and basicity (the acid/base character) of the vanadium species do not seem to have a crucial impact on the reaction. However, the acid/base properties of the support may have an impact on the reactivity, which will be explained below.
Chao et al. investigated MgO as a support by comparing two groups of mixed-metal oxides, that is, mesostructured Mg/V oxide and a mixed oxide that was prepared by a solid-state reaction between MgO and V2O5. For both systems, activity increased with Mg content, but the selectivity for ethene decreased. In comparison, the mesostructured oxides were more active and selective. Again, this result can be explained by the highly dispersed Mg species in the V2O3 phase and the high surface areas. Mg species are assumed to lower the redox capacities of V-containing species, thereby influencing the activation of ethane.40
The influence of the oxidation state of the vanadia species becomes important if the ODH on vanadia-based systems is initiated by the transfer of paired electrons. For this mechanism, two vanadia centers have to cooperate as shown in Figure 6. Whereas only V5+ could be observed in freshly calcined catalysts, V4+ was also detected on used catalysts, especially after experiments with high conversion levels. Thus, V4+ species alone seem to favor deep oxidation and, as a consequence, lead to lower selectivities for the olefin. In passing, a V5+/V4+ ratio of 1:1 yields the maximum selectivity in O-insertion reactions.84
Let us now return to the doping of vanadia-containing catalysts as a means to improve the catalytic performance. Galli et al. studied the effect of K+ doping into an Al2O3-supported vanadia catalyst.85 The incorporation of K+ ions lowers the reducibility of vanadia catalysts. The olefin selectivity in the ODH of ethane decreased, but, for example, increased in the ODH of n-butane. The concentration of acidic sites decreased with increasing K+ incorporation, thus suggesting that acidic sites favor the ODH reactions of short alkanes, whereas basic sites favor the ODH reactions of longer paraffins.
Other promising catalyst systems include V-containing aluminophosphates (also doped with Co and Mg).86–88 These active sites, because V and other metals were incorporated into the microporous aluminophosphate framework, have been shown, for example, by Concepción et al. for AlPO-5 frameworks that contained V, Co, and Mg.
Co-APO-5 has been explored in depth, because it should have the most pronounced redox and acidic properties. This catalyst was active and selective and CoV-APO-5 was even much more active for the ODH of ethane. This result was attributed somewhat vaguely to the cooperation between V and Co sites. A redox couple was assumed to form, but the acidic character of this pair was assumed to change during the reaction. A similar catalyst, VCoAPO-18, which contained V and Co in an AEI structure, led to two different redox pairs (V5+/V4+ and Co3+/Co2+). In both cases, the crystal structure and the presence of the second Co3+/Co2+ redox pair change the redox properties of the V species. The metal cations also serve as Lewis acid sites. The catalyst even shows a higher selectivity than the AFI material. ODH reactions over these catalysts proceed through a Mars–van Krevelen mechanism. The presence of acidic sites close to the redox center favors a fast desorption of the olefin intermediates from the catalyst, thus leading to high selectivity for ethene.86 Too-high V loadings lead to the formation of extra-framework VO species, thus favoring total oxidation. Thus, ideal catalysts have a high degree of incorporation of Co and V into the framework.
The insertion of Mg into the VAPO-5 framework, which is known to create acidic sites,89 resulted in a notable increase in olefin selectivity compared to the Mg-free catalyst (59.7 % versus 32.1 % at T=600 °C and a conversion of about 28 %).88 This example shows again that the spatial proximity of acidic sites to the redox center promotes the desorption of olefin intermediates, thus leading to a lower total oxidation rate and higher olefin selectivity at the same conversion.88 The identical conversion indicates that the redox sites are active for the paraffin transformation and the improved selectivity in the presence of acidic sites shows that acidic sites are not directly involved in the redox cycle, but rather facilitate the desorption step.90–95
This assumption is corroborated by the fact that only low olefin selectivities are reported in V/Mg-oxide based catalysts with MgOV pairs, but without the presence of acidic sites.88, 96
Thus, it can be concluded that the spatial proximity of acidic and redox sites within a molecular-sieve framework is especially positive for ODH reactions. However, the behavior of acidic sites must not be compared with the influence of acidic sites in vanadia species that are supported on bulk oxides, in which acidic centers on the support favor an unselective conversion of ethane.
Phosphorus is another known dopant. One example is (VO)2P2O7, both in bulk and supported on TiO2.97 The supported catalyst contains highly dispersed (VO)2P2O7 and yields a performance that is one order of magnitude higher than the unsupported catalyst. The incorporation of P is another approach for changing the reducibility of V. The strong interactions with TiO2 increase the reducibility of V by decreasing the metaloxygen bond strength (see Section 3.3.1), thereby leading to very active catalysts.
4.1.2. Mo-based systems
As with V oxides, Mo oxides are also active for the ODH of ethane.98–101 However, similar to vanadia systems, a consensus regarding the nature of the active site has not been reached. On the one hand, the active site has been concluded to be a molybdenyl group, which activates the first CH bond, inducing a homolytic cleavage through a single-electron process, because it has been shown that the activity depends on the concentration of MoO bonds.1, 22 On the other hand, different authors have studied Al-supported Mo systems, which have suggested that the anchoring of MoO-support bonds is critical for the ODH reactivity, thus suggesting that oxygen atoms between the support and the molybdenum species are responsible for the catalytic activity.102
Mo can be used on a Si/Ti mixed-oxide support.103–105 The olefin selectivity is especially increased if Cl− ions are added.106–108 This increase is explained by the formation of more-complex ligand structures that contain MoO species on SiO2, whereas the formation of these species is hindered on TiO2. The addition of Cl− ions seems to accelerate olefin desorption by weakening the interactions with ethene, thus limiting its further oxidation. Cl− ions also lower the oxidation potential of the catalyst by lowering the redox potential of Mo4+ ions,107 thus leading to a lower mobility of lattice oxygen atoms. As a result, the addition of Cl− ions leads to strongly bound ethyl species and more weakly bound acetate and formate species, which indicate intermediates on the path to total oxidation.
4.1.3. Mixed-oxide-based systems
Mixed-oxide-based systems appear to be better suited to adjusting the redox potential and acting cooperatively than single oxides.64, 109, 110 One of the most popular mixed-oxide system is based on Mo/V oxides. Mo appears to be particularly active if employed together with V on a mesoporous Al2O3 support.98 However, the main active species is still V. Mo and V do not interact with each other, but the monomeric or polymeric tetrahedral Mo species cover the unselective support sites, thus increasing the selectivity.
It has been reported that such a catalyst, with an orthorhombic Mo3VOx structure, is very active. The high reactivity has been associated to the formation of pentagonal Mo6O21 units. The arrangement of these units leads to heptagonal channels, which constitute micropores. It is speculated that the catalytic reaction proceeds within these pores.111
More-complex systems contain the oxides of V, Mo, Sb, and Nb, which are mainly prepared by hydrothermal synthesis.112 MoVNbOx and MoVSbTe are reported to be very active and selective in the ODH of ethane.3, 113, 114 The catalysts generally consist of two crystalline phases, that is, the orthorhombic M1 phase, (AO)2−2x(A2O)xM20O56 (A=Te, Sb; M=Mo, V, Nb; 0<x<1), and the distorted orthorhombic M2 phase, A2OM6O19 (A=Te, Sb; M=Mo, V, Nb). Further phases have also been found, that is, TeMo5O16/Sb4Mo10Ox, (V,Nb)xMo5−xO14, and bronze phases.113 However, the occurrence of a third phase depends on the synthesis method.115
Notably, ethene has a low reactivity, owing to its low affinity to the M1 phase, which is rich in MoO and VO pairs that have been reported to be the active sites for the ODH of ethane. However, for the oxidation of ethene, MoTe sites or MoNb sites seem to be required, because they form stronger interactions with olefins.113
Botella et al. studied MoVTeNbOx catalysts that were prepared by using different methods.110, 115 For MoVTeNbOx mixed-oxide catalysts, cooperation between two crystalline phases was suggested to explain the structure of an active site that was assembled from the multifunctional Te2M20O57 orthorhombic phase and the Mo5O14 phase. The orthorhombic phase contained pentagonal bipyramidic sites and Te-containing hexagonal pores.110 The catalyst operated at 340 °C with around 20 % conversion and an ethene selectivity of around 97 %. The calcination temperature was crucial for the formation of the above-mentioned phases. Similarly, for MoVSbOx catalysts, the (SbO)2M20O56 phase is highly active and selective (around 65 % conversion and 80 % selectivity). Mo/V-based systems have also been reported to be active if they are promoted with Al, Ga, Bi,116 and Ce.117
4.1.4. Ni- and Co-based systems
NiO-based catalysts are suitable materials for the ODH reaction that operate at relatively low temperatures (300–400 °C). Pure NiO is very reactive towards ethane; however, it exhibits low selectivity for the ODH of ethane. The selectivity dramatically improves if supported on an oxide (Al2O3,118 ZrO2119) or if used as bulk mixed oxide that was doped with promoters, such as Nb and Sn.19, 120–124
NiO that is supported on Al2O3 strongly interacts with the support, thereby forming a non-stoichiometric surface nickel-aluminate phase. At higher loadings, capping islands of NiO particles of increasing size begin to form on top of the nickel/alumina interface. The interactions with alumina adjust the electronic properties of NiO such that the decreased oxygen mobility leads to highly selective catalysts.
The promotion of supported and unsupported NiO-based systems by the addition of metals cations, including Mo, V, Nb, Ta, Co, Li, Mg, Al, Ga, and Ti, is possible.86, 87 The most selective catalysts are based on Ni/Nb oxides, which achieve ethene selectivities of around 90 % and remain almost constant at conversion levels of up to 20 %. A maximum yield of 46 % has been reported at 400 °C. Ni cations are speculated to be active sites for CH activation, with Nb affecting the oxygen species.19
Pure NiO predominantly produces electrophilic O2− and O− species, as well as nucleophilic O2− species, on its surface.125 The addition of Nb results in the elimination of the electrophilic oxygen species that are responsible for the total oxidation of ethane. Thus, the selectivity towards the olefin is improved by Nb acting as an electron donor. Other dopants increase or decrease the presence of unselective electrophilic oxygen species.122 A systematic study of a series of NiO-based mixed oxides with doping metals that varied from low (+1) to high valence (+5) showed that the dissolution of cations with lower/equal valence to nickel (Li+, Mg2+) increased the amount of non-stoichiometric oxygen species in NiO, whereas the higher-valence cations (Al3+, Ga3+, Ti4+, Nb5+, Ta5+) acted as electron donors and decreased the concentration of positive p+ holes and, consequently, the electrophilic O− radicals of the NiO acceptor.122
The ODH of ethane on the NiNbO catalyst follows a Mars–van Krevelen mechanism. Importantly, the redox cycle proceeds through a change in the oxidation state of Ni, whereas Nb does not change its oxidation state. In particular, at large concentrations of Nb (above 15 wt. %), the re-oxidation of Ni2+ can be retarded by the Nb atoms, thereby decreasing the catalytic activity of NiNbO compared to pure NiO.118, 126 However, the addition of Nb decreases the concentration of electrophilic oxygen species, thereby increasing the olefin selectivity.127, 128
Notably, an optimum of the reactant partial pressures exists. Low O2 partial pressures lead to high olefin selectivities, whereas a minimum O2 pressure is needed to keep the catalyst in its fully oxidized state.129
If a catalyst contains more than 15 % Nb, it is deactivated. This result is related to the formation of a NiNb2O6 phase, which is thermodynamically stable under the employed ODH reaction temperatures, but is not active for the ODH reaction.128
Nickel oxide can be used in combination with ceria as a mixed-oxide catalyst.123 Low concentrations of Ce (Ni/Ce>6) lead to a marked increase in catalyst activity and selectivity compared to pure NiO. This increase is related to an increase in the specific surface area and a decrease in reducibility. The addition of higher concentrations of ceria (Ni/Ce=0.2–0.3) changes the mechanism. In this case, ceria is responsible for transportation of the oxygen species from the bulk to the surface, thus forming both NiO and Ce1−xNixO2, and leads to a faster re-oxidation of Ni.
Tungsten is also used to promote NiO.122 The activity decreases with increasing W content, thus indicating that the active sites are associated with accessible Ni cations. Again, W-rich and Ni-rich systems behave differently: W-rich systems mainly form NiWO4 and WO3, whereas Ni-rich systems mainly form NiO and WOx species. W-rich systems favor ethane decomposition, thus decreasing the selectivity for ethane during the ODH reaction. However, Ni-rich catalysts show higher ethene selectivity than pure Ni-based catalysts, but also lower activity. These catalysts contain small NiO and WOx particles, with the latter species assumed to block unselective sites of NiO.
Besides Ni, Co is also an interesting material for the ODH of ethane. However, Co2+ ions cannot be easily reduced; thus, the ODH of ethane does not follow the typical Mars–van Krevelen mechanism.41 Redox properties are associated with adsorbed surface-oxygen species, with Co2+ ions acting as a non-redox-active center.130 These species may be modified by interactions between Co2+ ions as the active phase and a TiO2 support.131 Catalysts that contained various Co and P130 concentrations showed the best performance, with the optimal results achieved with 7.6 wt. % Co. Whereas the catalyst deactivated to form a Co/Ti species, a maximum steady-state yield of 13.3 % was achieved at a conversion of around 25 % and a selectivity of around 60 %. Detailed characterization showed that the active species was Co2+ ions in octahedral coordination.
Co-BaCO3 was explored with CO2 as the oxidant instead of O2. At 650 °C, ethane conversion reached 48 % with 92.2 % olefin selectivity.132 The use of CO2 decreased the flammability of the reactants and eliminated the total oxidation of ethane and ethene. Moreover, coke could still be removed from the catalyst through the reduction of CO2 and the partial oxidation of C. The active sites are reducible Co4+O species. On the other hand, BaCO3 is assumed to form defect centers and trapped electrons, which activate O2 for the ODH reaction. Cooperation between BaCO3 and BaCoO3, as both a redox-active metal and a source of active oxygen species, is assumed to be one reason for the good activity and selectivity of this catalyst, which is a good example of cooperation between sites, as discussed in Section 3.3.2.
4.2. Rare-earth-metal oxides
These catalysts typically consist of La2O3, Sm2O3, CeO2, and Pr6O11.30, 133–136 Promotion with Na30 and CaO137, 138 has also been investigated. The cleavage of the first CH bond occurs through a single-electron process and the catalysts belong to the group of non-redox-active materials. The main catalytic function is the production of ethyl radicals, which are released into the gas phase, with ethene and CO as the main carbon-containing products.30 The catalysts were operated between 600 °C and 900 °C and the selectivity was around 50 %; both the conversion and selectivity for the olefins increased with temperature. This result is thought to be related to the release of ethyl radicals, which increasingly takes place at elevated temperatures. Enhancing the release rates implies that fewer ethoxy species (intermediates of CO2 production) exist on the surface at the steady state.30
The addition of alkali-earth/alkali metals to rare-earth oxides improves the catalytic performance.139 A Sm2O3 catalyst that is doped with 10 % Na+ cations shows a notably higher selectivity than a pure Sm2O3 catalyst. For both catalysts, olefin selectivity decreases with increasing oxygen concentration; however, this effect is not as pronounced for Na+-doped catalysts than for pure Sm2O3. Whereas ethene and CO are the main products with rare-earth oxides, CO2 is observed instead of CO in the presence of Na+ cations. This result suggests that the formation of lattice oxygen species plays a role in the activation of the alkane and it points to the operation of a heterogeneous surface-catalyzed mechanism.
This trend is even more clear in the case of La2O3.30 Adding Sr+ ions to rare-earth oxides leads to a marked increase in activity and selectivity. At 700 °C, Sr2O3 on neodymium oxide is the optimal catalyst in terms of activity and selectivity, whereas Sr+-doped CeO2 and praseodymium oxides show the poorest performance.139
Rare-earth oxides are either employed as bulk materials or on a MgO support, being per se also a potential catalyst for the ODH of ethane. By comparing the performance of Sm2O3-covered MgO with that of pure MgO, it is interesting that Sm2O3 does not increase the catalytic activity, although it increases the specific surface area. However, covering MgO in the same way with La2O3 strongly enhances the catalytic activity. This result cannot be explained by only surface stabilization at higher specific surface areas; thus, the intrinsic activity of the catalyst seems to be drastically improved by La3+ species.30
CeO2 is an exception because it has two oxidation states in the catalytic cycle. Ceria-based catalysts are unique because CO2 can be used as an oxidant.137 However, higher temperatures are required for the activation of CO2 compared to oxygen.140 In this case, a combination of a homogeneous and heterogeneous mechanisms is assumed. For the heterogeneous catalyst part, Ce4+ species are reduced by ethane into Ce3+ species, thus supplying oxygen, and are re-oxidized through the reduction of CO2. CeO2 plays a role not only because of its redox properties, but also because of its oxygen-storage capacity. To further improve the catalytic performance, the addition of Ca2+ ions to Ce4+ ions increases the oxygen-ion mobility of CeO2, as well as contributes to a higher surface basicity, thus leading to faster olefin desorption (higher olefin selectivity).137 Interestingly, olefin desorption is accelerated in the presence of basic sites on this class of catalysts, in contrast to redox-active catalysts, in which acid sites that are in spatial proximity to redox pairs favor olefin desorption, as mentioned before.
The improvement of the catalytic performance of rare-earth oxides can also be achieved by the addition of halides.141–144 Au and co-workers reported that the addition of 50 mol % BaCl2 to Ho2O3141 lowered the reactivity of the oxygen species and, thus, favored the activation of the weaker CH bond in ethane (410 kJ mol−1) instead of the CH bond in ethene (452 kJ mol−1). Raman spectroscopy showed that the intensity of the bands of O2 species was higher for the BaCl2-containing catalyst compared to pure Ho2O3. Thus, the addition of BaCl2 resulted in a higher storage capacity and activation activity of O2 species. Again, a higher concentration of basic sites, which was induced by the addition of BaCl2, decreased the adsorption of ethene and, thus, the total oxidation of ethane. It can be inferred that intrinsically weaker adsorption and site-isolation are the key concepts for avoiding the re-adsorption of ethane onto these catalysts, thus, maintaining high selectivities. Cation substitution of Ho3+ and Ba2+ is assumed to create oxygen defects that are active for O2 activation. A similar phenomenon is observed on Sm2O3/LaF3 catalysts by promotion with BaF3.142
4.3. Supported alkali oxides
The simplest and most prominent catalytic system in this class is MgO-supported Li2O.145 In general, such oxides belong to the group of non-redox-active catalysts. However, it is not yet known whether the first CH bond is activated through a single-electron process or a paired-electron process.1
The active site has been concluded to be [Li+O−], thus forming defects on the MgO surface. The fact that [Li+O−] sites possess labile O species is of special importance, because the ODH activity notably decreases upon catalyst deoxygenation. The O− species is assumed to abstract the first hydrogen atom. Evidence was found that Li+ ions formed clusters on the MgO surface, but it was concluded that the Li2O domains on MgO did not show classical redox properties.34, 146 It should be emphasized that Li+ ions that are incorporated into a MgO matrix are also active and selective and can be prepared by a sol–gel synthesis.147 The reaction is assumed to proceed through radical chain reactions, by following a homogeneous/heterogeneous reaction pathway. The catalyst essentially serves as an element to initiate the radical chain mechanism.34
In contrast to these conclusions and the assumption that [Li+O−] is the active site, Freund and co-workers concluded that the paramagnetic [Li+O−] species did not exist under the reaction conditions, because the species were not detected by EPR spectroscopy.35, 148, 149 Li+ ions have been found to introduce oxygen vacancies into the MgO matrix. At higher Li+ concentrations, Li/Mg-oxide islands and LixO surface clusters form. However, Li can desorb into the gas phase at elevated temperatures (>780 °C), thus resulting in the formation of surface defects. Therefore, despite suggesting that [Li+O−] sites may form under non-equilibrium conditions, Myrach et al. raised doubts that these are active for the ODH of ethane.35
The addition of halide anions (Cl−, Br−) further enhances activity and selectivity.31, 150, 151 The active sites in the halide-promoted materials have not been unequivocally identified. Wang et al. suggest that Li2O is the catalytically active phase,152 with LiCl forming a thin layer between the support and the catalytically active phase, which modifies the base strength and suppresses the formation of Li2CO3. Fuchs et al. concluded that the active site consisted of a Li+ cation and nucleophilic oxygen species.21 The addition of CO2 to these catalysts markedly decreases the ODH activity, thus suggesting that carbonate formation indeed blocks the active sites. Gaab et al. provided a detailed differentiation between Cl−-free and Cl−-containing catalysts.32 They postulated that hypochlorite (OCl−) anions formed in the LiCl melt, thus providing a transient, highly reactive site with dissolved O2.
Alternatively, a combined surface/gas-phase mechanism has been suggested, similar to the one for Cl−-free catalysts.6 However, this mechanism cannot explain the increasing selectivity towards ethene with temperature. A third approach invokes a surface-catalyzed pathway,32 thus suggesting that the non-selective sites are covered or dissolved in the molten overlayer.
For Cl−-free catalysts, surface ethyl radical formation and a gas phase radical reaction pathway dominate. The initial activation of ethane to form an alkyl radical in the gas phase is considered to be rate determining. However, at partial pressures of above 70 mbar, the reaction order decreases, which is attributed to saturation of the active site.
4.4. Supported alkali chlorides
Whereas supported alkali-oxide catalysts show certain disadvantages, including inhibition by CO2 and limited selectivity, materials with an overlayer of molten alkali chloride and no addition of alkali oxide have been reported to be catalytically active for the ODH of ethane.51, 67 Supported liquid-phase catalysts (SLC) are a new generation of catalysts for the ODH of ethane, which requires comparatively high reaction temperatures (around 600 °C). However, very high selectivities for ethane (up to 95 %) can be achieved. The first CH bond is cleaved homolytically in a single electron-transfer process.
Activity and selectivity have been reported for catalysts with overlayers of pure alkali chlorides and several eutectica153 of alkali chlorides, such as LiCl, KCl, NaCl, LiKCl, LiNaCl, LiSrCl, and LiBaCl, that are supported on (Dy2O3-promoted) MgO.51, 67 Whereas LiCl leads to the most active catalysts, these catalysts are also the least selective. The selectivity towards ethene inversely depends on the melting point of the chloride. A linear increase in the selectivity with temperature is observed below the melting point, whereas it remains essentially constant above the melting point. Metal cations are presumably inactive towards CH activation, but they influence the catalytic behavior of the molten chloride overlayer. The oxygen solubility is the highest for LiCl,51 whereas larger cations (Na+, K+) lead to fewer dissolved oxygen species.154, 155 Ethane solubilities in the highly polar melt are negligible.67
It has been speculated that dissolved O2 in the molten chloride reacts to form positively charged Cl atoms.1 In turn, a transient hypochlorite species (OCl−) is assumed to catalyze the ODH reaction. The hypochlorite anion itself has a high redox potential and is supposed to form at the interface between the chloride melt and the solid support [Eq. (14)].
(14)
Hypochlorite is assumed to be the transient species in low concentrations and diffuses within the melt to the surface, on which it activates the CH bond. Because those anions are surrounded by alkali cations, spatial separation occurs within the melt, which causes the active sites to be well-dispersed and prevents mutual interactions.
However, the exact mechanism is still matter of debate. Cl radicals are not thought to play a role in alkane activation, neither as initiator nor as radical-chain propagator, and the formation of HCl bonds are unlikely. A key aspect of the adsorption properties of the melt is the Lewis acidity of the cations. The addition of, for example, K+ ions, lowers the average Lewis acidity compared to that of pure Li. Thus, the improved olefin selectivity in the presence of alkali/alkali-earth chlorides of the LiClMgDyO catalyst is speculated to be associated with a decrease in the strength of the Lewis acid.
4.5. Other catalysts
One of the most promising groups of catalysts is based on Ni, Cu, and Fe (cation)-loaded Y-zeolites.156 In this case, the first CH bond is also assumed to be cleaved homolytically through a single electron transfer.
Acidic catalysts were prepared by ion exchange with metal sulfates and subsequent reduction with hydrogen. For basic catalysts, an additional ion exchange with KOH was performed. Acidic zeolites were significantly better than basic zeolites in terms of conversion and ethane selectivity. Ni-based materials showed the best performance, followed by Cu and Fe; the best catalyst (Ni on acidic Y-zeolite) showed an ethane conversion of 21 % and ethene selectivity of 75 % at 600 °C. Ethene selectivity increased with increasing temperature. With acidic zeolites, ethane oxidation (leading to ethene) dominated over ethane combustion, whereas basic zeolites favored ethane combustion.
For the ODH reactions of transition-metal-supported zeolites, two mechanisms are proposed.156 The first proposal suggests that two surface oxygen atoms react with ethane, thus forming one surface metalethoxide group and one surface hydroxy group. The metal ethoxide can then undergo two subsequent reactions, that is, α-hydrogen abstraction, thereby forming an aldehyde plus a metal hydride, or β-hydrogen abstraction, thereby leading to ethene plus a metalhydroxy group.
The second possibility is the formation of a metalethyl complex plus a surface hydroxy group after one ethane molecule reacts with one surface oxide group. Subsequently, β-hydrogen abstraction takes place, thus forming ethene plus a metal hydride. Various techniques have been applied to address the dominating mechanism,156, 157 although it could not be clarified whether the reaction took place through an ethoxyhydroxy mechanism or an ethyl radical. However, it was shown that ethoxy groups were not stable at elevated temperatures.157
Carbon materials, in particular carbon nanotubes, have also been reported to be active. However, these catalysts appear to be challenging to use and ethane conversions of below 5 % have been reported at 400 °C; the use of higher reaction temperatures is seen as problematic, because of the potential oxidation of the catalyst. This problem can be mediated by surface modification with B2O3 or P2O5, which have the positive side effect of decreasing the concentration of electrophilic oxygen species, thereby increasing the selectivity. The nature of the active sites is not defined and their concentration is too low to be successfully characterized.158
4.6. Conclusions
Table 1 provides a synopsis of a selection of active sites that have been presented in this Section (only the basic types of sites are shown). The characteristics of the sites and the specific mechanisms are compiled, together with their typical reaction temperatures and selectivities. A complete list of the referenced catalysts, including their performance, is presented in the final Section.
Table 1. Different active sites for the ODH of ethane.
Site
Type of site
Activation of first CH bond
Mechanism
Operation range [°C]
Selectivity
Reference
VO
redox
single-electron process, homolytic or paired-electron process, heterolytic
transient radicals on catalyst surface or redox cycle
430–650
10–90
38, 40
MoO
redox
single-electron process, homolytic
redox cycle
550–580
40–90
98, 100
[NiNbO]
redox
–[a]
–[a]
350–400
80–90
19, 120
CoO
non-redox
–[a]
–[a]
550
45–80
130
Sm2O3
non-redox
single-electron process, homolytic
radical chain
550–700
20–70
30
[LiMgO]
non-redox
single-electron process, homolytic
radical chain
570–650
57–75
145, 174
[OCl−]
redox
single-electron process, homolytic
525–600
80–95
51, 67
[a] Not reported or still unclear.
The redox-active site is either a cation redox pair (such as V5+/V4+) or an anion redox pair (such as OCl−/Cl−). High dilution of the sites and higher acid strength appear to promote desorption of the ethyl species and favor selectivity. The sites with metal redox functionality require lower temperatures than anion redox pairs and yield high selectivities. In particular, V- or Ni/Nb-based oxides are among those with the lowest required reaction temperatures. High reaction temperatures also face the danger of inducing a radical chain mechanism, which tends to lead to lower selectivities. Thus, temperature is one of the most critical parameters in determining whether a mechanism is purely heterogeneous (i.e., redox reactions on catalyst surfaces) or homogeneous (surface-induced gas-phase radical chain reactions).7
5. Advanced Reactor Concepts for the ODH of Ethane
Clearly, activity and selectivity in the ODH reaction not only depend on the properties of the catalyst, but are also critically influenced by the reactor. Because weakly bound oxygen species on the catalyst surfaces are thought to lead to the accelerated formation of COx species, higher O2 partial pressures lead to lower selectivity, especially with catalysts that contain metal redox pairs.9 Thus, various concepts have been investigated to limit the concentration of this species (such as membranes, cyclic reactors, and variations in the oxygen/hydrocarbon feed). In this Section, we focus on two important concepts, that is, membrane reactors and reactors with a millisecond residence time.
5.1. Membrane reactors
Two main different types of membrane reactors are known and practically implemented, that is, extractor and distributor reactors.27 After shortly introducing both concepts, we want to rationalize and discuss which type of reactor could be promising for ODH reactions.
The extractor membrane reactor separates products within the reactor to prevent consecutive reactions. For equilibrium-limited reactions, it enables higher conversions by selectively extracting the limiting reaction product, such as H2 from dehydrogenation. However, the H2-extractor membrane does not provide a solution for coking, which is a major cause of catalyst deactivation in the dehydrogenation of ethane. The removal of ethene, which leads to enhanced selectivity by avoiding consecutive reactions, is not feasible for the ODH reaction, because membranes with a sufficiently high separation factor between ethane and ethene are not known, thereby limiting the potential of the membrane extractor concept.
The distributor membrane reactor disperses a reactant across the catalyst bed, thereby avoiding high local concentrations, which is of special importance for decreasing the explosion limits with hydrocarbon/oxygen mixtures so that undiluted feed streams can be used.7 Furthermore, it has the potential to enhance product selectivity, if the distributed reactant has a higher reaction order in the undesired reaction path than the desired one, as is the case for O2 in the ODH reaction.7 Typically, interfacial membrane reactors are used, which are equipped with catalytic membranes that enable the reaction on the membrane surface.
Rodriguez et al. simulated the performance of the ODH reaction of ethane with a NiNbO catalyst that was packed into a tubular porous inorganic membrane reactor by dosing oxygen into the shell side across the membrane and ethane into the center compartment159 and they compared the results to a model conventional multitubular reactor.160 Whereas the conversion of ethane in a tubular porous inorganic membrane reactor remained about the same compared to that in a fixed-bed reactor, the selectivity for the olefin was higher. These, higher selectivities were explained by the lower local O2 partial pressures and the smaller temperature gradients that were achieved with the axial distribution of O2. The operating conditions have to be finely tuned, in particular by the addition of O2 to the ethane feed, to enhance the reaction rates. O2-permeation rates, which are higher than O2-consumption rates, lead to an unfavorable concentration profile with oxygen accumulation along the catalyst bed, thus inducing lower selectivity. On the other hand, a feed that contains a majority of oxygen in a mixture with ethane would jeopardize the enhancement by the distributor membrane because it would leads back to a quasi-conventional reactor with strongly exothermic total oxidation, lower olefin selectivity, and the appearance of “hot spots”. Concerning the membrane type, a porous membrane with a weakly temperature-dependent trans-membrane oxygen flux is apparently more amenable than dense membrane materials with their temperature-related oxygen permeation.
Iglesia et al. studied the staged feed of oxygen for the ODH of ethane with a well-known V2O5 catalyst. Similar activities have been observed compared to a regular fixed-bed reactor, despite notable differences in the local oxygen concentration. The kinetics are identical in staged and constant feeds. However, the total oxidation of the produced ethene was lower with a staged oxygen feed. Reaction studies revealed that the homogeneous part of ethene oxidation was dependent on the oxygen concentration, whereas the heterogeneous part was zero-order in oxygen.161 As the catalyst-to-volume ratio is high in industrial-scale reactors, homogeneous contributions to the whole reaction are almost negligible. Thus, the benefits of a staged oxygen feed become less important in large-scale applications by using a V2O5 catalyst.
Another study compared the performance of a similar catalyst (vanadium oxide supported on gamma-alumina) for the ODH of ethane in fixed-bed or membrane reactor configurations at high space velocities under excess oxygen.162 The conversion of ethane was higher in the packed membrane reactor, although the olefin selectivity decreased. This phenomenon is particularly important in excess oxygen, because the total oxidation of ethene is higher in the membrane reactor than in the packed-bed reactor and is related to the local O2 concentrations. In the first part of a membrane reactor, ODH is the dominant reaction. However, because this part has the longest contact time, the total oxidation of ethane also occurs. In the second part, excess oxygen leads to the total oxidation of ethene, mainly into CO. In the last part, oxygen, which is still present in excess, leads to the oxidation of ethene and CO. Given these facts, a catalyst does not always perform equally well in fixed-bed and membrane reactors. The kinetics and the contact time are key factors in influencing the catalyst performance for each reactor type.
To use another well-known ODH catalyst in an advanced reactor concept, MgO that was doped with Li and Sm2O3 was used as a packed catalyst in a reactor with oxygen dosing through a porous Al2O3 membrane.163 The Sm2O3-doped catalyst showed better performance in the membrane reactor. Limited to low ethane/O2 ratios in the feed, splitting the O2 feed gave marked improvements compared to a standard plug-flow reactor (PFR). However, this effect disappeared for higher ethane/O2 ratios,163 because it is sensitive to contact times. As the O2 feed rates increased at low feed ratios, the contact times of oxygen and ethane differed, thus, causing differences in the behavior of the reactor. However, at higher ethane/O2 feed ratios, the contact times of both reactants became similar to that of a standard PFR.
This example illustrates that staged O2 admission is beneficial for the ODH of ethane, with yields (under certain conditions) that are about three-times higher than in a fixed-bed reactor. However, the membrane reactor did not perform well at short contact times. Because long contact times and a low ethane/O2 ratio are neither productive nor likely, owing to flammability issues, this improvement is not realistic for large-scale applications, owing to a very limited parameter window.
Some membranes catalyze the ODH reaction, even without additional catalysts. However, coating those membranes with a catalytically active material enhances the performance of the membrane reactor.28 The reactions are run at around 1000 K, a temperature at which surface-modified dense membranes allow a constant supply of the catalyst with ionic oxygen (extracted from air) fed into the other side of the membrane. Perovskite membrane (BaSrCoFeO) showed outstandingly high oxygen permeation; however, the trans-membrane flow of oxygen decreased with time at lower temperatures (below about 1000 K).164
The membrane surface was modified with Pd nanoclusters or a V/MgO catalyst on the permeate side-surface. A first effect of the modification relates to changes in the oxygen permeability, as shown for V-based modification, which doubles the oxygen flow across the membrane. Ethane conversions increase linearly with temperature up to about 60 % at around 800 °C for a reactor with a bare membrane, whereas the selectivity decreased slightly with increasing temperature. The activation energy was higher for the coated membranes, but the selectivities decreased even faster. Nonetheless, a highest ethene yield (about 75 %) was achieved with a catalyst-modified membrane that showed stable performance over at least 23 days. Essential for the operation of those materials was a reasonably high oxygen flux across the membrane, which could be controlled with temperature. The membrane transports ionic oxygen, which is converted into the activated species (O2−, O−, O2−) on the catalyst surface without the presence of O2. Hence, this concept allows the fine-tuning of catalytic systems, following a Mars–Van Krevelen mechanism.27
A staged reactor concept has been introduced that combined dehydrogenation with the oxidation of the formed H2.117 A perovskite-based hollow-fiber membrane, which was made of mixed oxygen-ion electron-conducting dense BaCoFeZrO, was used to separate O2 from air. Parts of the membrane were passivated by Au, which created different reaction zones, that is, the passivated parts were dehydration zones, in which H2 and ethene were produced, whereas oxygen was transported into non-passivated parts. Conversions could reach up to 52 % with selectivities of up to 72 %. The membrane is claimed to be coke-resistant and to allow long-term operation. The performance of the reactor concept is supposed to improve upon coating one site of the membrane with a catalyst. However, the reaction is not a classical ODH reaction, because of the intermediate formation of H2.
5.2. Short-contact-time partial oxidation of ethane
Schmidt, Huff, and Holmen have utilized monoliths for the ODH of ethane at very short contact times.165, 168 By using a very short contact time of the reactant/product mixtures (about ×10−4 s) offers various advantages, including a small reactor volume and an autothermal operation mode. Typical catalysts are supported Pt and Rh. The extremely short contact times help to minimize ethene re-adsorption to enhance olefin selectivity. The activation of the first CH bond is homolytic and is thermally induced by a single-electron transfer.
The performance of short-contact-time reactors can be significantly improved by added H2 to the feed stream,11 thus increasing ethene selectivity up to 85 % with Pt and PtSn catalysts. For very low contact times (around 0.5 ms), the flow rate did not influence the selectivity. Thus, a homogeneous gas-phase mechanism can be ruled out. It is assumed that H2 is oxidized, which generates heat and consumes O2, thereby lowering the concentration of O2 that is available for total oxidation, because H2 is formed by the dehydrogenation of ethane.
Further studies have shown that the metal coating on the monolith directs the selectivity. With Pt and PtSn catalysts, ethene is mainly formed, along with CO, H2, and water as by-products. However, Rh mainly produces synthesis gas and Pd leads to severe carbon deposition.165
Three different mechanistic scenarios are discussed, that is, a completely homogeneous gas-phase mechanism, a completely heterogeneous surface mechanism, and a combination of the two, with H2 oxidation taking place on the surface and ethane dehydrogenation taking place through radicals in the gas phase. The results cannot be unequivocally described by each of these mechanisms.
One prominent way to model the reaction network on Pt-coated monoliths includes the assumption that the catalyst burns a fraction of ethane, thereby generating heat. This heat is used to form radicals that start a homogeneous gas-phase mechanism.166 The heterogeneous mechanism suggests that ethane is adsorbed, followed by dissociation into ethene and, eventually, C and H on the catalyst surface, and the subsequent oxidation of both species. However, this model cannot fully explain the catalytic chemistry if hydrogen is co-fed into the reactor. The combined surface gas-phase mechanism167 suggests that ethene is formed in the gas phase (in the case of Pt and PtSn monoliths), whereas CO, H2, and water are mainly formed on the surface.
Holmen and co-workers studied the extinction and ignition behavior of short-contact-time processes.168 During ignition and extinction, CO and CO2 were observed to be the main reaction products, together with a noticeable temperature change during these processes. These results also suggest that the ODH reaction takes place in the gas phase, whereas the by-products, that is, H2, CH4, and COx, are formed on the Pt surface. Monoliths of rare-earth metals and alkaline-earth-metal oxides are thought to follow the same reaction pathway.169, 170
The microkinetic aspects of short-contact-time ethane activation over these materials were investigated in greater detail by performing transient kinetic measurements with a focus on the nature of the active oxide species.171 It has been found that adsorbed monoatomic and diatomic oxygen species are active during the ignition of the alkane/oxygen mixture. Whereas the adsorbed monoatomic oxygen species was active for the ODH reaction, diatomic oxygen was responsible for heterogeneously catalyzed total oxidation.
Pt/Al2O3 showed a similar behavior, that is, the catalyzed combustion accelerated the ignition of ethane/oxygen mixtures under autothermal conditions, thereby also showing a homogeneous/heterogeneous mechanism.172
This result also holds true for other catalytic materials. Over oxides of non-reducible metals, heterogeneous reaction steps form adsorbed oxide species that are reactive for the ODH of ethane. Owing to the exothermic character of this reaction, the temperature of the catalytic bed rises, thus leading to the thermal dehydrogenation of ethane, which improves the overall yield of ethene.
An important improvement for short-reactor-time concepts is heat integration.173 Reverse-flow operation of a fixed-bed reactor with a coated monolith is possible (about 15 s per cycle). Whereas selectivities remain almost unchanged, conversion levels can be dramatically improved (up to about 90 %).
6. Summary and Outlook on Catalytic ODH Reactions
Table 2 and Table 3 show performance data for the catalysts and the different reactor concepts that have been introduced in this Review, respectively; the results are summarized in Figure 8. These data represent the best catalytic performance in each of the cited references, but they do not consider the space/time yield of the catalytic systems. Interestingly, the concepts with the best performance (>70 % yield of ethene) are not restricted to one class of catalyst or reactor concept, thus indicating that a multitude of possible solutions to this problem exist.
Table 2. Performance data for selected catalysts.
No.
Catalyst
T [°C]
X(C2H6) [%]
S(C2H4) [%]
Reference
1
Ni12Ce
275
10.4
59
122
2
Pt monolith
450
85
46
168
3
MoVNb
400
9
75
114
4
NiW0.36
400
54
38
122
5
NiW0.45
400
21
50
122
6
MoV0.39Te0.16Nb0.17O
380
39.8
93.9
110
7
LiMgCl/Dy2O3
570
81.3
76.2
174
8
LiZnOCl
721
82
78
146
9
V2O5/γ-Al (5.2 wt. %)
430
50
40
38
10
Co7.6/TiO2
550
22.2
60
130
11
Ni/HY
600
22
74.5
156
12
BaF2/SL1 (Sm2O3LaF3)
700
62.9
67.7
142
13
BaCl2/Ho2O3
640
56.6
67.9
141
14
CoBaCO3 (7 wt. %)
650
48
92.2
132
15
SrLaNdO
700
65.2
71.2
175
16
Li/MgO (3 %)
625
53.9
63.8
145
17
Mg/Dy/Li/O/Cl
600
60
83.3
176
18
LiMgOCl
675
11
78
152
19
LiCl/ZrON
650
94.8
71.3
177
20
NdLi/SZ
650
93
83
177
21
LiMgDyOCl
600
82
77
67
22
LiNaMgDyOCl
650
82.4
91
51
23
SrNd2O3
800
58
79
139
24
Sm2O3
700
25
60
30
25
10CaCe
750
21
100
137
26
Vox/Al (20 wt. %)
550
30
57
44
27
Ni0.85Nb0.15
400
65
70
19
28
MoVSbO
400
40
95
64
29
VOP/Ti9
550
15
70
97
30
10Val
550
37
57
42
31
M10V5
580
33.8
70.7
98
32
VCo-2
600
27.8
74.3
86
33
ClMoSiTi
600
31
36.2
107
34
CoVAPO-5
600
43.9
40.8
87
35
MgVAPO-5
600
28.7
59.7
88
36
V/Al
600
60.2
40.2
85
37
SrCl2/Sm2O3
640
80.3
70.9
143
38
SmOF
700
80.2
91.8
178
Table 3. Performance data for selected reactor concepts.
No.
Catalyst, reactor configuration
T [°C]
X(C2H6) [%]
S(C2H4) [%]
Reference
39
Pt/alumina, reverse-flow reactor
n.r.
90
60
173
40
Pt/Sn, H2 co-feed
n.r.
73
83
11
41
Rh/Pt (10 %) gauze
–[a]
34
62
179
42
Pt foam monolith
875
62
55
165
43
PBR, VOx/γ-alumina
600
70
30
162
44
V2O5/Al2O3 (2 wt. %) staged feed
n.r.
35
45
161
45
BaCoxFeyZr1−x−yO
725
100
50
180
46
BaCoxFeyZr1−x−yO, BCFZ membrane
725
64
67
181
47
V/MgO membrane
777
90
83
28
48
LaSr/CaO
1000
32
55
182
49
Na0.009CaOx
–[b]
78
72
171
[a] Surface: 900 °C, gas: 580 °C; [b] ignition: 600 °C, maximum: 927 °C.
Figure 8
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Performance of catalytic and reactor systems.
High selectivities are limited by the high olefin reactivity and the favorable thermodynamics of paraffin and olefin oxidation. As a consequence, all of the catalytic materials show some activity for the complete oxidation of paraffin and olefins. Rapid ethene desorption by adjusting the acid/base properties and limiting ethene re-adsorption by minimization of the concentrations of Lewis acid sites, as well as coupling surface-catalyzed activation of ethane with gas-phase radical-chain reactions, have been found to be the most promising concepts for catalyst and process design. Whereas membrane-based processes only show a moderate chance of success, ultrashort reactor concepts appear to be closer to their practical realization. Suitable catalysts for the ODH of ethane can be divided into two groups: In the first group, as-ideal-as-possible oxide surfaces minimize the concentration of accessible Lewis acid metal sites, which are responsible for ethene re-adsorption. In the second group, molten active components generate dynamically rearranging surfaces, which prevent the re-adsorption of the olefin by minimizing the concentration of coordinatively unsaturated metal centers.
For conventional reactor systems, catalysts that are based on complex vanadia mixed oxides and supported molten chlorides are the best choice. PtSn catalysts have been identified as the best catalysts for reactors with an ultrashort contact time. Dramatic differences in the materials emphasize how different energies of activation for the multitude of steps in the complex reaction sequence lead to very different results for the various optimal catalysts. The complexity of this reaction also makes it almost impossible to generalize the nature of the selective and unselective sites. The critical catalytic preferences will be influenced by the rates of processes in a complex matrix, which are influenced (by default) by the different energies of activation, pre-exponential factors, and the concentrations of the catalyzing sites. Thus, intermediate oxygen species could be active and selective for the ODH reaction on one catalyst, but unselective on others.
The examples shown above illustrate that a detailed understanding of the reaction mechanism, the nature of the active sites, and the reaction kinetics is essential for the design and optimization of the synthesis and catalytic properties of new catalysts. The improvement of existing reactor concepts and the realization of new concepts have to occur in a coordinated fashion. The unprecedented increase in insight into the materials properties, the strategies to synthesize these materials, the detailed chemistry of the individual reaction steps, and the fluid dynamics of advanced reactor concepts make it appear realistic that the ODH of ethane will be competitive to steam reforming in the near future.
Acknowledgements
C.G. acknowledges support from the TUM Graduate School and the Faculty Graduate Center Chemistry (FGCH), as well as valuable discussions with Prof. Angeliki Lemonidou.
Biographical Information
Christian Gärtner, born in Stuttgart (Germany), studied Chemical Engineering at the University of Stuttgart (Germany) and the University of Wisconsin, Madison (USA), where he received his MS in 2009 under the supervision of Prof. James A. Dumesic. In 2010, he received his diploma from the University of Stuttgart. Afterwards, he joined the group of Prof. Johannes A. Lercher at the Technische Universität München (Germany). His PhD work focuses on the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over supported alkali-chloride catalysts.
Biographical Information
Andre C. van Veen was born in Issum (Germany) in 1971 and studied Chemistry at the Ruhr-University in Bochum (Germany), where he received his Diploma in 1997 and his PhD in 2000 with Prof. Martin Muhler. As a Postdoctoral Researcher, he spent time at the Institut de Recherches sur la Catalyse in Villeurbanne (France) and at the Max-Planck Institut für Kohlenforschung in Mülheim (Germany). In 2010, he joined the group of Prof. Johannes A. Lercher at the Technische Universität München (Germany). His Habilitation in 2011 at the Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1 (France) focused on structured reactors for heterogeneous catalysis. He became a Lecturer at the TU München in 2012 and was later appointed as a Professor at the University of Warwick (UK).
Biographical Information
Johannes A. Lercher, born in Vienna (Austria), studied Chemistry at the Technische Universität Wien and, after a visiting lectureship at Yale University, he became a Lecturer and Associate Professor at the same institution. From 1993 to 1998, he was a Professor at the Department of Chemical Technology, University Twente. In 1998, he moved to the Department of Chemistry, TU München, where he assumed a joint appointment as the Director of the Institute for Integrated Catalysis at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory in 2011. He is member of both the Austrian Academy of Sciences and the Academia Europea. His research focuses on the fundamental aspects of sorption and catalysis on oxides and molecular sieves, the in situ characterization of catalysts and catalytic processes, and on catalysis for the sustainable synthesis of clean-energy carriers.
References