<quotes>
[1] "The strategy used by the scientist to do this was based on the fact that most of the organic templates used to synthesize zeolites affect the gel chemistry and act as void fillers in the growing porous solids."
[2] "This approach did not give positive results in the case of zeolites, but in contrast was quite successful when using Al and P or Ga and P as framework elements."
[3] "The presence of framework tetrahedral Al generates Brnsted acidity which is strong enough to carry out the cracking of paraffins."
[4] "Despite these catalytically desirable properties of zeolites they become inadequate when reactants with sizes above the dimensions of the pores have to be processed."
[5] "The rational approach to overcome such a limitation would be to maintain the porous structure, which is responsible for the benefits described above, but to increase their diameter to bring them into the mesoporous region."
[6] "The presence of mesopores in the crystallites of a given zeolite should basically increase the accessibility of large molecules to the external opening of the pores."
[7] "The beneficial effect of the combination of micro and mesoporous region in the zeolite crystallites was shown by comparing the cracking activity of two series of Y zeolite dealuminated by SiCl4 and steam."
[8] "The dealumination by steam produced many more mesoporous areas within the material while some of the microporosity was destroyed."
[9] "The cracking activity of the two series of dealuminated Y zeolites was compared for cracking a small reactant molecule (n-heptane) which can easily penetrate through the pores of the zeolite Y."
[10] "However, when the two series of dealuminated Y zeolites were used to crack a vacuum gas oil, containing molecules too large to penetrate deep into the microporous system, the steam-dealuminated samples, which contain a greater proportion of mesoporosity, gave a higher conversion."
[11] "Unfortunately, in processes where the catalyst regeneration occurs at high temperatures the mesoporosity of the catalyst changes during the regeneration and in cases such as the FCC, this occurs in an uncontrollable way."
[12] "Among the different layered phases, smectites are probably the ones which best fulfill these requirements."
[13] "Care should be taken to avoid overfilling the interlayer or in turn introducing too few pillars since then a nonporous intercalate or unstable structure is generated."
[14] "Indeed, the openings of the interlayer spaces of PLS are of the molecular size of the feed stocks to FCC."
[15] "Even though the most investigated substrates to be pillared include smectite clays, phosphates and phosphonates of tetravalent metals, and layered double hydroxides, the ones showing most promising potential belong to the first group."
[16] "However, the resulting material was thermally unstable and therefore, of no practical use for catalysis."
[17] "An important qualitative advance was provided by the use of oxyhydroxyaluminum cations as the pillaring agent."
[18] "When the exchanged samples are subject to a careful thermal treatment, dehydration and dehydroxylation occur, forming stable metal oxide clusters which serve to separate the layers, creating a two dimensional gallery with an opening, which if properly prepared can be greater than 1.0 nm."
[19] "The ideal situation is for the pillar height to be of the same order as the lateral separation between pillars, resulting in a product with a near uniform pore size distribution."
[20] "The resultant PLS materials have at least 50% of their surface in pores less than 3.0 nm (intralayer), and the rest is in pores larger than 3.0 nm, i.e., in mesopores (interlayer)."
[21] "Indeed, the openings of the interlayer spaces of PLS are of the molecular size of the feed stocks to FCC."
[22] "However, in addition and of more interest than just greater stability was the observation that different porosities were obtained with Al/Ce pillars in comparison to the pure Al pillars."
[23] "Indeed, the Al/Ce rectorite has a d spacing of 3.49 nm corresponding to an interlayer distance of 1.57 nm which is larger than the interlayer distance (0.84 nm) of the Al rectorite."
[24] "Moreover this result has been confirmed from highly sensitive diffuse reflectance IR spectroscopy measurements, where Brnsted acid sites with an acid strength comparable to that of zeolites has been found."
[25] "It was soon recognized that different Al-pillared clays such as montmorillonites, saponites, beidellites, etc., have both Brnsted and Lewis acid sites in varying relative proportion."
[26] "However, in the case of solid acids, as important as the number and type of acid sites is their acid strength since this will be responsible for the extent to which a given bond in the reactant molecule will be polarized and, consequently, will determine the type of reaction that the solid acid will be able to catalyze."
[27] "The total amount of acid sites present in montmorillonites pillared with Al polyhydroxy cations, using n-butylamine as a titrating base, was compared with those obtained with amorphous silica-alumina and HY zeolite."
[28] "Indeed, Poncelet and Schulz have considered this aspect by studying the acidity of montmorillonite and beidellite pillared with Al oligomers."
[29] "When this was done, it was found that the pillared acid activated clays (PAACs) incorporated less Al than did the conventional PLS, with the former being more mesoporous and less microporous."
[30] "Furthermore, the surface acidity was increased. An increase in the number of both Brnsted and Lewis acid sites also occurs when the pillared clays are treated with sulfate or phosphate ions."
[31] "When samples are calcined either in vacuum or in air a decrease in acid hydroxyls (dehydroxylation) and consequently on the number of Brnsted sites is observed."
[32] "Indeed, in order to stabilize the activity of the catalyst, one should calcine the solid before it is introduced into the reactor at a temperature above the reaction temperature."
[33] "It is evident that in the case of pillared materials, the preparation procedures are the determinant factor controlling the density and distribution of pillars, with clear implications on the diffusivity of the reactants in the galleries formed, and consequently on the adsorption and reactivity."
[34] "Indeed, in one study coronene (1.1 nm diameter) was successfully adsorbed on one Al-PLS with roughly the same interlayer distance than the material shown in Table 5."
[35] "Meanwhile, freeze-dried samples adsorb appreciable amounts of the above molecule, which can be explained by assuming that freeze drying promotes edge to edge or edge to face aggregation and consequently macropores are formed."
[36] "In order to accomplish this, three criteria need to be met: (1) Use the whole clay material and preferably a clay requiring the minimal pretreatment. (2) Pillar the Ca or Ca-Na forms, not the Na form in order to avoid the need for a pre-exchange. (3) Use a claypolymer concentration >15% solids, that can be economically and effectively spray dried to give a good particle size distribution (40200 μm)."
[37] "In the case of real refinery feeds, clays pillared with Al, Zr, or Ti have been used as the acid component of the hydrotreating catalyst formulation."
[38] "When this was done it was found that highly stable materials retaining more than 75% of the surface area after a hydrothermal calcination at 760 C for 4 h were produced."
[39] "Indeed, the Al/Ce rectorite has a d spacing of 3.49 nm corresponding to an interlayer distance of 1.57 nm which is larger than the interlayer distance (0.84 nm) of the Al rectorite."
[40] "Moreover this result has been confirmed from highly sensitive diffuse reflectance IR spectroscopy measurements, where Brnsted acid sites with an acid strength comparable to that of zeolites has been found."
[41] "The results from Table 8 indicate that sample 2 has a lower C/N ratio than sample 1. Moreover the CTMA/N ratios obtained strongly suggest that the liquid crystals are CTMA+Cl-SiO+ and CTMA+NO3-SiO+ for samples 1 and 2, respectively."
[42] "The results in Figure 24 nicely show that a typical MCM-41 material with d100 = 4.25 nm is formed in the presence of TMA+ when the crystallization time was 24 h."
[43] "If crystallization is prolonged beyond that a loss of crystallinity accompanied by a decrease in the pore volume of the mesoporous material was observed."
[44] "In Figure 25 a correlation between the unit cell parameter (a0) of the resultant MCM-41 sample and the crystallization time is given."
[45] "Variables such as temperature, CTMA/SiO2 ratio, and nature of the cation (TMA+, TEA+, Na+) are all important for controlling the process."
[46] "The swelling mechanism observed may be related to the replacement of some CTMA+ by tetraalkylammonium cations in the interphase formed between the liquid crystal and the silica surfaces."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The scientist used the fact that organic templates used to synthesize zeolites affect the gel chemistry and act as void fillers to increase the diameter of the porous solids, transitioning them into the mesoporous region.

2. The strategy of increasing the pore size to the mesoporous region was successful when using aluminum and phosphorus or gallium and phosphorus as framework elements, unlike when using zeolites.

3. Framework tetrahedral aluminum in the Al-pillared zeolites generates Brnsted acidity, strong enough to facilitate the cracking of paraffins.

4. Zeolites, despite their desirable catalytic properties, become insufficient when processing reactants larger than their pore dimensions.

5. The rational approach to overcoming this limitation is to maintain the porous structure while increasing its diameter to enter the mesoporous region.

6. The presence of mesopores in the crystallites of zeolites increases the accessibility of large molecules to the external openings of the pores.

7. The combination of micro and mesoporous regions in zeolite crystallites enhances cracking activity, as demonstrated by comparing two series of Y zeolite dealuminated by SiCl4 and steam.

8. Steam dealumination produces many more mesoporous areas within the material, while some of the microporosity is destroyed.

9. The cracking activity of two series of dealuminated Y zeolites was compared for a small reactant molecule (n-heptane) which can easily penetrate through the pores of the zeolite Y.

10. However, when using these zeolites to crack a vacuum gas oil containing large molecules, the steam-dealuminated samples, with a higher proportion of mesoporosity, showed a higher conversion.

11. Unfortunately, in processes requiring high catalyst regeneration temperatures, the mesoporosity of the catalyst changes uncontrollably during regeneration, such as in the FCC process.

12. Smectites are considered as the most suitable layered materials for pillaring due to their ability to fulfill the requirements for stability and porosity.

13. Overfilling the interlayer or introducing too few pillars can result in a nonporous intercalate or an unstable structure.

14. The interlayer spaces of PLS are of the molecular size of the feedstocks used in FCC processes.

15. The Al/Ce rectorite has a larger d spacing and interlayer distance compared to the Al rectorite, leading to different porosities.

16. The Brnsted acid sites of the Al/Ce rectorite have an acid strength comparable to that of zeolites, as confirmed by diffuse reflectance IR spectroscopy measurements.

17. Different Al-pillared clays, such as montmorillonites, saponites, and beidellites, exhibit both Brnsted and Lewis acid sites in varying proportions.

18. The number and type of acid sites in solid acids, particularly their acid strength, play crucial roles in determining the extent of bond polarization and the type of reaction catalyzed.

19. The total amount of acid sites in montmorillonites pillared with Al polyhydroxy cations was compared to those in amorphous silica-alumina and HY zeolite.

20. Poncelet and Schulz studied the acidity of montmorillonite and beidellite pillared with Al oligomers to understand the effect of different pillaring agents on acidity.

21. Acid activated clays (PAACs) incorporated less aluminum than conventional pillared zeolites, resulting in higher mesoporous and lower microporous structures.

22. Surface acidity was increased when the pillared clays were treated with sulfate or phosphate ions.

23. Calcining samples either in vacuum or in air leads to a decrease in acid hydroxyls and the number of Brnsted sites.

24. For stabilizing catalyst activity, it is recommended to calcine the solid before introducing it into the reactor at a temperature above the reaction temperature.

25. Preparation procedures for pillared materials control the density and distribution of pillars, impacting the diffusivity of reactants and their adsorption and reactivity.

26. Coronene, with a diameter of 1.1 nm, was successfully adsorbed on an Al-PLS with similar interlayer distance to the material in Table 5.

27. Freeze-dried samples were capable of adsorbing appreciable amounts of the molecule, suggesting the formation of macropores through edge-to-edge or edge-to-face aggregation.

28. To ensure economic competitiveness for commercial FCC catalysts, the use of the whole clay material and a clay requiring minimal pretreatment is recommended.

29. Pillared clays, such as rectorite, are used in FCC processes, but the high coke production and poor hydrothermal stability limit their practical application.

30. Researchers have focused on improving the stability of resulting materials by using different types of pillars and altering the nature of the clay.

31. The stability of resulting materials depends on the nature of the clay used, with rectorite being the most stable among the different clays.

32. Rectorite pillared with Al/Ce maintains surface areas above 220 m2/g after a hydrothermal calcination at 800°C for 16 h.

33. The Al/Ce rectorite has a pore diameter ranging from 0.5 to 1.6 nm with a sharp peak at 0.68 nm, indicating bulkier, less uniformly distributed pillars.

34. The Brnsted acidity of the Al/Ce rectorite is responsible for its enhanced stability and different porosity compared to the Al rectorite.

35. The acidity of an Al-pillared material was measured using n-butylamine as a titrating base and compared with amorphous silica-alumina and HY zeolite.

36. Acid activated clays (PAACs) incorporated less aluminum, resulting in higher mesoporous and lower microporous structures.

37. The surface acidity was increased when the pillared clays were treated with sulfate or phosphate ions.

38. Calcination temperatures above the reaction temperature stabilize the activity of pillared clays.

39. The Brnsted acidity of the Al/Ce rectorite is due to the clay structure, while the acidity of the OH groups in the Al pillars can be disregarded.

40. The acidity of the Al/Ce rectorite is primarily Lewis in nature.

41. The C/N ratio of sample 2 is lower than that of sample 1, and the CTMA/N ratios suggest the presence of CTMA+Cl-SiO+ and CTMA+NO3-SiO+ liquid crystals.

42. A typical MCM-41 material with a pore diameter of 4.25 nm was formed using TMA+ when the crystallization time was 24 h.

43. If the crystallization time is prolonged beyond a certain point, a loss of crystallinity and a decrease in pore volume of the mesoporous material is observed.

44. A correlation between the unit cell parameter (a0) of the resultant MCM-41 sample and the crystallization time is shown in Figure 25.

45. Temperature, CTMA/SiO2 ratio, and the nature of the cation (TMA+, TEA+, Na+) are crucial factors influencing the MCM-41 synthesis process.

46. The swelling mechanism observed might relate to the replacement of some CTMA+ ions by tetraalkylammonium cations in the interphase between the liquid crystal and silica surfaces.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 科学家利用有机模板用于合成沸石影响胶体化学和作为孔隙填充物的性质，通过增加多孔固体的直径将它们转移到介孔区域。

2. 增加孔径至介孔区域的策略在使用铝和磷或镓和磷作为框架元素时取得了成功，这与使用沸石的情况不同。

3. 框架四面体铝在Al沸石中产生Brnsted酸性，足以进行烷烃裂解。

4. 尽管沸石具有吸引人的催化性质，但在处理大于其孔径尺寸的反应物时变得不足。

5. 为克服这一限制的合理方法是在保持多孔结构的同时增加其直径以进入介孔区域。

6. 在给定沸石结晶体中的介孔的存在基本增加了大分子对外部开口的孔隙的可访问性。

7. 通过比较两系列由SiCl4和蒸汽处理的Y沸石的裂解活性，微和介孔区域的组合在沸石结晶体中显示了增强的裂解活性。

8. 蒸汽处理产生了许多更多的介孔区域，在材料中，同时一些微孔性被破坏。

9. 对两系列处理后的Y沸石进行了比较，用于裂解可以轻松穿透沸石Y孔的较小反应物分子（庚烷）。

10. 然而，当使用这些沸石来裂解含有大分子的真空气体油时，蒸汽处理的样品，具有更高的介孔比例，显示出较高的转化率。

11. 不幸的是，在要求高催化剂再生温度的过程中，催化剂的介孔性在再生过程中会发生不可控的变化，例如在FCC过程中。

12. 其中，层状矿物被认为是最适合作为填料的介孔材料，因为它们满足稳定性和多孔性的要求。

13. 过度填充层间或引入过少的支柱会导致无孔层间或不稳定的结构生成。

14. PLS的层间空间是FCC过程所用燃料分子的分子大小。

15. Al/Ce改性的树脂的d间距和层间距大于Al树脂，导致不同的孔隙率。

16. Al/Ce树脂的Brnsted酸位点的酸强度与沸石相似，从高度敏感的原位反射红外光谱测量中得到证实。

17. 不同的Al填料，如蒙脱土、磷酸盐、四价金属的磷化物和双羟基化合物，显示了最有可能的潜在潜力。

18. 结果表明，改性材料的稳定性高于无机阳离子的热稳定性，但它们的稳定性仍然不足以用于催化过程。

19. 当使用不同类型的支撑剂对沸石进行酸化时，它们的酸性会增加。

20. 通过对样品进行真空或空气处理，酸羟基的数量（脱水解）和Brnsted位点的数量都会减少。

21. 为了稳定催化剂的活性，建议在将固体引入反应器之前对其进行在高于反应温度的温度下进行煅烧。

22. 准备介孔材料的过程控制着支柱的密度和分布，从而影响反应物的扩散性以及吸附和活性。

23. 冠烯（直径1.1纳米）成功吸附在具有相似层间距离的材料中，与表5中的材料相比。

24. 冻干样品能够吸附大量上述分子，这可以解释为假设冻干促进了边缘到边缘或边缘对面的聚合，从而形成宏观孔。

25. 商业FCC催化剂应经济且竞争力强，因此推荐使用整个粘土材料和需要最少预处理的粘土。

26. Rectorite被用作FCC过程中的催化剂，但由于高焦炭生产量和较差的热稳定性，其实际应用受到限制。

27. 研究人员已集中精力通过使用不同类型的支柱和改变粘土的性质来提高结果材料的稳定性。

28. 研究人员发现，使用不同类型的粘土可以提高树脂的稳定性。

29. Rectorite用Al/Ce填料保留超过220 m2/g的表面面积，在800°C下进行16小时的热处理。

30. Al/Ce rectorite的孔径范围为0.5至1.6 nm，峰值位于0.68 nm，表明存在更粗大的、分布不均匀的支柱。

31. Al/Ce rectorite的Brnsted酸性归因于粘土结构，而Al支柱上的OH群的酸性可以忽略不计。

32. 使用n-丁基胺作为滴定基质测量了Al填料的总酸位，并将其与二氧化硅-氧化铝和HY沸石进行了比较。

33. 酸激活粘土（PAACs）吸收的铝含量低于常规填充沸石，导致更高的介孔和更低的微孔结构。

34. 处理后的粘土表面酸度通过硫酸或磷酸盐离子得到了增加。

35. 为了稳定催化剂活性，建议在引入反应器之前将固体在高于反应温度的温度下进行煅烧。

36. Al/Ce rectorite的Brnsted酸性归因于粘土结构，而Al支柱上的OH群的酸性可以忽略不计。

37. 总酸位在Al沸石填料中通过n-丁基胺作为滴定基质进行了测量，并与二氧化硅-氧化铝和HY沸石进行了比较。

38. 酸激活粘土（PAACs）吸收的铝含量低于常规填充沸石，导致更高的介孔和更低的微孔结构。

39. 煅烧温度高于反应温度可以稳定催化剂活性。

40. Al/Ce rectorite的Brnsted酸性归因于粘土结构，而Al支柱上的OH群的酸性可以忽略不计。

41. 样本2的C/N比率低于样本1，CTMA/N比率表明液晶是CTMA+Cl-SiO+和CTMA+NO3-SiO+。

42. 当结晶时间为24小时时，典型的MCM-41材料具有4.25 nm的孔径直径，使用TMA+。

43. 如果结晶时间延长超过一定点，晶相的损失以及孔隙材料的孔体积的减少就会观察到。

44. 图25给出了结果MCM-41样本的单元参数（a0）与结晶时间之间的相关性。

45. 温度、CTMA/SiO2比率和阴离子的性质（TMA+、TEA+、Na+）都是控制MCM-41合成过程的重要因素。

46. 可能的膨胀机制可能与在液晶和二氧化硅表面之间形成的界面中部分CTMA+离子被四烷基铵离子取代有关。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
