<quotes>

[1] "When this catalyst was compared with an optimized Ti-MCM-41 containing 2 wt % of TiO2, it is found that the olefin epoxidation activity per Ti atom is larger on Ti-MCM-41, but since the titania-silica aerogel has a much larger titanium content the conversion achieved on this sample is higher."

[2] "Owing to the success in the incorporation of Ti and its relatively good behavior as a selective oxidation catalyst, other transition metal elements with potential catalytic activity were also intended to be introduced on the walls of the MCM-41."

[3] "For instance, a vanadium-containing mesoporous catalyst was used for the hydroxylation of 2,6-di-tert-butylphenol (2,6 TBP) into 2,6-di-tert-butyl-1,4-benzoquinone with high conversion selectivity and efficient H2O2 utilization."

[4] "In the case of V-mesoporous catalysts, we discussed before the possible leaching of V during the reaction and the homogeneous catalyzed reaction by the dissolved vanadium."

[5] "In the case of olefin epoxidation, the selectivity towards the epoxide is always lower on Zr-MS compared to Ti-MS."

[6] "There is no doubt that even though the substrates studied up to now are smaller than 3.5 nm, in the case of liquid-phase processes, effectiveness factors lower than one still may exist for molecules with sizes above 1.2 nm."

[7] "In this respect, one should not forget that when increasing the Ti content a part of the incorporated Ti will be in the walls and, even if it is in the correct coordination, will not cooperate to the final activity since will not be accessible to the reactants."

[8] "The textural characterization of the samples (Table 26) clearly shows that the surface area strongly decreased, indicating that some pores are blocked by the HPA, and therefore there is not a uniform distribution of the acid on the surface."

[9] "This fact opens up the possibility of carrying out enantioselective epoxidation of olefins."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The olefin epoxidation activity per Ti atom on Ti-MCM-41 is higher than on Ti-MCM-41 containing 2 wt % of TiO2, but the conversion is higher on the latter due to its larger titanium content.

2. Transition metals like vanadium, chromium, iron, chromium, and manganese have been incorporated into the walls of MCM-41 for catalytic purposes.

3. A vanadium-containing mesoporous catalyst was effectively used for the hydroxylation of 2,6-di-tert-butylphenol, resulting in high conversion selectivity and efficient utilization of hydrogen peroxide.

4. During reactions involving vanadium-containing mesoporous catalysts, there is a possibility of vanadium leaching, which affects the reaction's catalytic performance.

5. In olefin epoxidation, the selectivity towards the epoxide is generally lower on Zirconium-containing mesoporous silica molecular sieves compared to Titanium-containing ones.

6. In liquid-phase processes, effectiveness factors lower than one might exist for molecules with sizes above 1.2 nm, indicating limitations in catalytic performance.

7. Increasing the Titanium content in the material results in some of the incorporated Titanium being present in the walls, which negatively impacts the overall activity since it is not accessible to reactants.

8. The presence of HPA (Heteropolyacids) leads to a decrease in the surface area of the material, suggesting that some pores are blocked by the HPA, leading to a non-uniform distribution of the acid on the surface.

9. The study indicates that it is possible to perform enantioselective epoxidation of olefins using anchored complexes covalently bonded to the walls of mesoporous materials.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 钛-MCM-41上的烯烃环氧化活性每钛原子高于含2 wt %钛氧化物的钛-MCM-41，但由于后者具有更大的钛含量，因此该样品的转化率更高。

2. 铌、钼、钨等大离子过渡金属以及铁、铬、锰等其他潜在催化活性的过渡金属元素被引入MCM-41的壁中用于催化作用。

3. 含有钒的介孔材料催化剂被有效用于2,6-叔丁基苯酚的羟基化，产生高转化选择性和高效过氧化氢利用。

4. 在涉及含钒介孔催化剂的反应中，存在钒泄漏的可能性，这影响了反应的催化性能。

5. 在烯烃环氧化过程中，与钛相比，锆掺杂的介孔硅分子筛的环氧选择性通常较低。

6. 对于尺寸大于1.2nm的分子，在液相过程中可能存在低于一个的有效性因子，表明在催化性能方面存在限制。

7. 增加钛含量会导致部分引入的钛存在于壁中，这会负面影响整体活性，因为它们对反应物不可达。

8. HPA（杂多酸）的存在导致材料的表面积显著下降，表明一些孔被HPA堵塞，导致表面酸分布不均。

9. 研究表明，可以通过在介孔材料的壁上共价键合复合物来实现烯烃的对映选择性环氧化。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
