3.2. Metal–Support Interaction Enhancement
Enhancing the metal–support interactions via immobilization of active compounds on well-tailored supports to form stable and well-defined active sites can exert profound effects on catalytic performance and is especially responsible for the activity, selectivity, and stability of solid–gas heterogeneous catalysts. (113−116) Strong metal–support interactions can be realized in both chemical and physical ways (Table 2). For the former, stable chemical bonds are usually established, while the latter adopts physical encapsulation to fix the active compounds.
Table 2. Summary of Methods for Enhancing Metal–Support Interaction
method catalyst temperature (K) WHSV (h–1)a feed composition time (h) initial activity (%)b C3H6 selectivity (%) kd (h–1)c ref
SOMC 1.97 wt % Ga/Al2O3–500 823 1.5 C3H8/Ar = 1:4 25 ∼24 ∼90 ∼0.0417 (120)
SOMC 1.64 wt % V/SiO2–200 773 0.12 C3H8/Ar = 1:4 167 ∼17 ∼90 ∼0.0024 (122)
SOMC 0.5 wt % Pt 1.5 wt % Sn/Al2O3 823 11.8 C3H8/H2/He = 1:1:8 72 ∼43 ∼99 ∼0.0028 (123)
incorporation in zeolite 1.12 wt % Co/S-1 853 0.6 C3H8/Ar = 1:19 10 ∼58 ∼97 ∼0.0986 (130)
incorporation in zeolite 0.5 wt % CoOx/SiBeta 873 0.6 C3H8/N2 = 1:19 6 ∼53 ∼98 ∼0.0862 (63)
incorporation in zeolite 0.4 wt % Pt 0.9 wt % Sn@K-MFI 823 118 C3H8/N2 = 5:16 70 ∼20 ∼97 ∼0.0029 (140)
in situ encapsulation 4 wt % Zn@S-1 823 2.4 C3H8/He = 1:9 40 ∼27 ∼98 ∼0.0227 (143)
overlay encapsulation Si@0.1 wt % Pt 5 wt % Sn/Al2O3 723 0.6 C3H8/H2/Ar = 1:1:38 34 ∼22 ∼91 ∼0.007 (145)
overlay encapsulation Al2O3@0.5 wt % PtAl2O3–1050 873 N/A C3H8/H2 = 1:1 20 ∼16 ∼91 ∼0.0121 (147)
aWHSV = weight hourly space velocity.
bInitial activity = initial propane conversion.
ckd is the deactivation rate, given by kd = {ln[(100 – Xend)/Xend] – ln[(100 – Xin)/Xin]}/time, where Xin and Xend are the initial and final propane conversions, respectively.
3.2.1. Hydroxyl Anchoring Method
Crystal materials with abundant hydroxyl groups can provide a subtle ambiance to graft metal sites or anchor metal compounds, providing a feasible pathway to fabricate well-tuned materials with various catalytic properties. (117) Controllable incorporation of active compounds on the support can be accomplished by using a hydroxyl anchoring approach (grafting or confining active sites on isolated hydroxyls and/or hydroxyl nests).
A precise molecular approach, surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC), can make use of the organic groups (usually hydroxyl groups) on the support and graft metal active sites on the support by the formation of strong covalent M–O bonds. (118) Through the selective reaction of hydroxyl groups on tailored supports with specific thermolytic molecular precursors (TMPs), such as metal hydrocarbyls, siloxides, and alkoxides, under high temperatures, highly dispersed metal oxide species can be generated. Surface CrOx species usually exist in the form of different valence states (+6, +5, +4, +3, +2), among which low-valent CrOx species are identified as active and selective sites for propane dehydrogenation. CrOx species with low coordination and uniform valence can be obtained by the adoption of the SOMC approach. A CrOx/SiO2 catalyst with well-defined Cr3+ sites was prepared by grafting a synthesized TMP, [(≡SiO)Cr(OSi(OtBu)3)3·2THF], on a SiO2 support (Figure 5a) and exhibited considerable catalytic performance compared to an industrial CrOx-based catalyst. (119) The C–H bond of propane was activated by the well-established Cr–O bonds, while the silica-supported Cr3+sites selectively catalyzed the dehydrogenation of small hydrocarbons based on a σ-bond metathesis mechanism.
Analogously to CrOx-based catalysts, GaOx-based catalysts can effectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation, as discussed above. Isolated Ga3+ sites with outstanding antireduction ability that were derived from the establishment of Ga–O bonds were obtained by grafting Ga(CH2CH(CH3)2) on fully dehydrated and partially dehydrated γ-Al2O3 and SiO2 (Figure 5b). (120) The synthesized Ga/Al2O3 with mononuclear [(≡AlO)Ga(CH2CH(CH3)2)2O] sites exhibited promising catalytic performance and relatively high durability compared to the Ga/SiO2 catalyst with dinuclear [(≡SiO)2Ga2(i-Bu)3] sites. Besides, the single-site GaOx catalyst conferred by the SOMC method was found to be more selective and active than the impregnated GaOx catalyst. (121)
In parallel to Cr and Ga, VOx species with high dispersion are usually preferable for propane dehydrogenation and can be prepared through the SOMC approach. With the grafting of an organovanadium complex [V(═O)(Mes)3] on two partially dehydroxylated SiO2 supports at 973 and 473 K, two surface VOx species, monopodal [(≡SiO)V(═O)(Mes)2] and bipodal [(≡SiO)2V(═O)(Mes)], were obtained on SiO2–700 and SiO2–200, respectively (Figure 5c). (122) Despite a relatively unsatisfactory catalytic performance observed for the bipodal species, all of those synthesized surface species sites exhibited higher selectivity and durability than the impregnated V2O5/SiO2 catalyst on account of the formation of isolated V sites.
The SOMC approach can also achieve the precise adjustment of metal-supported catalysts at an atomic level. After processes to graft TMPs on tailored supports and subsequent reduction treatment under high temperature, supported metal catalysts with narrow-size-distribution metallic nanoparticles can be identically prepared. Ultrasmall Pt–Sn nanoparticles stemming from well-defined surface species were prepared to boost the PDH reaction (Figure 5d) through sequential grafting of TMPs (Pt(COD)Me2 and Ph3SnH) on dehydroxylated Al2O3. (123) After the protonolysis reaction of TMPs with hydroxyl groups on the Al2O3 support, [(≡AlO−)Pt(COD)Me] and [(≡AlO−)SnPh3] surface species formed, as confirmed by FTIR and solid-state NMR spectroscopy (Figure 5e,f). A consecutive controllable hydrogenolysis of the prepared surface species resulted in the formation of a Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst. Compared to Pt–Sn/Al2O3 prepared via wet impregnation, this catalyst from SOMC synthesis exhibited higher PDH performance (37% propane conversion and >99% propylene selectivity at 823 K) (Figure 5g) with excellent catalytic stability (no obvious deactivation in a 72 h PDH reaction) resulting from the existence of the ultrasmall particle size with the uniform size distribution. Bimetallic Pt–Zn catalysts prepared via SOMC have also been achieved, analogously to Pt–Sn catalysts. (124,125) A SiO2-based catalyst supporting Pt–Zn alloy particles with subnanometric size and a uniformly narrow size distribution was synthesized by sequential grafting of [Zn(OSi(OtBu)3)2]2 and [Pt(OSi(OtBu)3)2(COD)] on the surface hydroxyl groups of SiO2 and performing reduction treatments under a H2 atmosphere. (124) The prepared Pt–Zn/SiO2 catalyst exhibited high propylene productivity (up to 703 gC3H6 gPt–1 h–1) with >98% propene selectivity and excellent durability with a low deactivation rate (kd = 0.027–1).
Significantly, zeolites are ideal supports for the PDH reaction with plenty of marvelous traits, including but not limited to their large surface area, ordered channels, and adjustable framework. The formation of hydroxyls on zeolites can result from various synthetic methodologies, including controlling the nature and purity of the used reagents and postsynthesis treatments. (126,127) It is worth noting that the hydroxyl groups on the zeolite support can provide a unique electronic and geometric ambiance, facilitating the anchoring of active compounds and inhibiting catalytic deactivation. The existence of hydroxyl groups during the zeolite formation process can promote the incorporation of active metal sites into the zeolite framework. (128−130) The FeS-1 catalyst exhibiting superior durability in olefin dehydrogenation was synthesized by incorporating Fe atoms into the MFI zeolite framework during the zeolite synthesis process. (128) The isolated Fe sites that were stabilized and modulated by the siliceous zeolite framework in the form of Fe–O–Si bonds, as confirmed by UV Raman spectra (Figure 6a) and EXAFS (Figure 6b), possessed excellent antireduction ability (Figure 6c) and contributed to the coke resistance ability and catalytic stability, with no obvious deactivation after 200 h reaction under 873 K (Figure 6d). Hu et al. identically encapsulated Co species in pure-silica MFI zeolite frameworks (Co-MFI) for PDH reaction and subtly studied the local structure and microenvironment of the isolated Co atoms. (130) The location, uniformity, and exact structure of Co active sites were characterized, indicating that the isolated Co active sites existing in a distorted tetrahedral structure of (≡SiO)2Co(HO–Si≡)2 were located in the T1(7) and T3(9) sites of MFI zeolites (Figure 6e). DFT calculations and deuterium-labeling reactions revealed that the isolated Co motif along with the zeolite microenvironment provided a unique microcircumstance to preactivate propane and a braced structure to stabilize the C3H7* intermediate, jointly realizing highly efficient PDH performance (initial propylene formation rate of 5.05 mmol gcat–1 h–1 accompanied by 96.7% selectivity and six reaction cycles with no loss in catalytic performance) compared to the impregnated Co/S-1 catalyst.
Post-treatment of peculiar zeolites, dealumination for instance, can help with the generation of hydroxyl nests with infrangibleness typical of the zeolite framework but only a little reduction of the crystal crystallinity due to the formation of vacant T sites in particular orientations. A highly selective Ga/Beta catalyst for the PDH reaction was devised through incorporation of Ga3+ into the zeolite framework and subsequent thermal removal of lattice Zn2+ of a Zn/Beta zeolite under a H2 atmosphere (Figure 6f). (131) The IR spectra demonstrated that well-defined Ga3+ sites were incorporated into the zeolite framework formed during Zn removal (Figure 6g). The dehydrated and tetrahedrally coordinated Ga3+ in the dezincated BEA lattice promoted the desorption of propylene and H2, resulting in high selectivity toward propylene (Figure 6h).
The dealuminated Beta zeolite, named SiBeta, was identified as an excellent support on account of the existence of the vacant Al sites and the generated Si–OH nests. (100,132−134) In our previous work, the VOx catalyst prepared through the incipient wetness impregnation method was synthesized as a promising PDH catalyst utilizing the SiBeta zeolite. (100) After a series of operations, including impregnation of NH4VO3 and the subsequent calcination process, unsaturated [VO4] units were finally prepared due to the resounding insertion of V atoms into the SiBeta framework through the formation of V–O–Si bonds, as confirmed by DR UV–vis spectra. These framework VOx species as selective and stable Lewis acid sites originated from the strong electron transfer effect due to the electronic difference between V and Si atoms. Besides, with increasing V loading, the vacant Al sites were gradually occupied by V atoms and finally completely consumed. The VOx species outside of the framework along with Lewis acid sites built a synergetic catalytic effect and achieved considerable propane conversion (∼40%) and excellent propylene selectivity (∼95%) with no obvious loss during four reaction–regeneration cycles. In parallel to V, a Co/SiBeta catalyst with highly dispersed Co species was prepared via the wet impregnation method. (63) After the impregnation process and the subsequent calcination process under an air atmosphere, Co compounds were successfully confined into the hydroxyl nests of the SiBeta support, as confirmed by FTIR spectroscopy (Figure 6i). Compared to the Co/AlBeta catalyst, the prepared Co/SiBeta catalyst presented a higher catalytic performance (57% propane conversion and 96% propylene selectivity at 823 K) with stable catalytic durability and recycling capacity, attributed to the dispersed and confined Co active compounds.
Likewise, the hydroxyl nests on the dealuminated zeolite can be utilized for anchoring bimetallic Pt–M alloys. Xie et al. synthesized a dealuminated-zeolite-stabilized bimetallic Pt–Zn catalyst through sequential wetness impregnation of Zn and Pt precursors (Zn(NO3)2 and [Pt(NH3)4](NO3)2) and the subsequent reduction process (Figure 6j). (60) The hydroxyl nests on the zeolite framework derived from the dealumination of Beta zeolite provided an anchoring effect to construct highly dispersed and stabilized Zn species that served as the anchoring sites for the Pt species. The prepared Pt–Zn/SiBeta catalyst exhibited high selectivity toward propylene (∼98%) with an ultralow deactivation rate of 0.02 h–1 (Figure 6k).
The hydroxyl anchoring method is identified as an effective approach to anchor active compounds for constructing strong metal–support interactions. Currently, the SOMC method provides a novel approach to achieve the controlled and precise synthesis of PDH catalysts at the atomic level by making full use of well-tailored supports and TMPs. Nevertheless, the complicated fabrication processes of suitable supports with uniform organic groups, coupled with the high-priced TMPs, make it untoward to apply to practical industrial manufacture. When it comes to the dealumination of peculiar zeolites to produce hydroxyl nests. which is considered to be a relatively handy approach, the acid treatment may reduce the zeolite crystallinity, leading to low hydrothermal stability and a high surface diffusion barrier, albeit the holistic zeolite framework is retained. Therefore, developing other effective methods to fabricate and utilize hydroxyl groups is still urgent.
3.2.2. Encapsulation
Physically encapsulating metal or metal oxide assemblies is one of the hottest themes in the construction of stable PDH catalysts, showing advantages in size control, site adjustment, and spatial segmentation. (135) Although the direct encapsulation route may exist in many catalytic systems, encapsulation with zeolites is more representative because of their highly ordered porous structure, high surface area, and unique chemical internal ambiance. (136,137) The special chemical internal environment in the zeolite matrix allows the existence of size-controlled nanoclusters and can impose an encapsulation effect. (138) Active compounds are spatially and electrostatically encapsulated in the zeolite matrix, where all of the catalytic reactions are carried out. Well-entrapped metal oxide sites can also be synthesized during the hydrothermal synthesis process of the zeolite through even blending of the metal precursors into the zeolite gel precursors. With the subsequent reduction process, metal nanoparticles with a uniform and ultrasmall size distribution can be obtained. Recently, ultrasmall Pt particles encapsulated in MCM-22 zeolite were fabricated by using dimethylformamide (DMF) as a capping agent along with the hexadecyltrimethylammonium surfactant to wrap Pt precursors during the swelling process of the lamellar zeolitic precursor of a two-dimensional (2D) zeolite into three-dimensional (3D) zeolite (Figure 7a). (139) After the calcination process to remove the organic surfactant and the subsequent reduction process, atomically distributed Pt atoms, coupled with ultrasmall Pt particles of 0.2–0.7 nm (Figure 7b), were fabricated, possessing high catalytic activity and stability. The prepared Pt@MCM-22 catalyst, moreover, exhibited excellent cycling stability with 90% of the initial activity retained, compared to retention of less than 60% of the initial activity of the Pt/MCM-22 synthesized by the conventional impregnation method after five reaction–regeneration cycles at 823 K (Figure 7c). A catalyst consisting of nanometric bimetallic Pt–Sn clusters encapsulated in K-MFI zeolite was synthesized via a one-pot direct synthesis using H2[PtCl6] and SnCl4·5H2O as precursors. (140) After modulating the interaction between Pt and Sn through the introduction of partially reduced Sn species by adjusting the H2 treatment time, the Pt–Sn nanoclusters were encapsulated in the 10R sinusoidal channels of S-1 zeolite, as determined by a combination of high-resolution high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HR-HAADF-STEM) and iDPC imaging. This catalyst exhibited high stability and only slight propane conversion deactivation from 20% to 17% after 70 h.
The ligand-protected direct synthesis method is an advanced synthesis method to encapsulate small clusters into zeolites using metal ligand-stabilized precursors (usually metal coordination complexes) to prepare stable catalysts during the zeolite formation process. (141,142) This method makes full use of the cooperation effect among organic groups, zeolite precursors, and organic structure-orienting agents and can effectively inhibit the deposition of metal hydroxides in an alkaline solution. Besides, this synthesis route can help achieve regioselective encapsulation and prepare ultrasmall nanoclusters. Recently, stable ZnOx species encapsulated in S-1 zeolite were prepared via the ligand-protected method. (143) [Zn(NH2CH2CH2NH2)3](OAc)2 was utilized as the Zn precursor. ZnOx species were trapped and efficiently stabilized in S-1 zeolite, in which the partially reduced ZnOx (0 < x < 1) species were identified as the active sites for PDH reaction. This Zn@S-1 catalyst also exhibited high propylene selectivity and renewability. Likewise, encapsulating bimetallic particles into zeolites can also be accomplished by this ligand-protected direct synthesis method. For instance, bimetallic Pt–Zn clusters encapsulated in the S-1 zeolite matrix were designed via the ligand-protected direct hydrogen reduction method by using [Pt(NH2CH2CH2NH2)2]Cl2 and [Zn(NH2CH2CH2NH2)3](OAc)2 as precursors (Figure 7d). (144) After directly reducing the as-prepared catalysts in pure H2 at 673 K without a calcination process in the air for the purpose of suppressing sintering of metal nanoclusters during the calcination–reduction processes, subnanometer and even atomically dispersed bimetallic Pt–Zn species were successfully encapsulated into the five- and six-membered rings of silicalite-1 zeolite, as confirmed by HAADF-STEM (Figure 7e). The formation of PtZn4 significantly enhanced the stability of the Pt particles and induced a superhigh selectivity toward propylene (∼99.3%). The prepared PtZn4@S-1 catalyst presented no obvious deactivation of catalytic activity after 13 000 min on stream without H2 cofeeding on account of the well-remained subnanometer Pt clusters encapsulated in zeolite channels (Figure 7f).
The overlayer deposition method is another effective strategy to encapsulate active sites on the surface of supports, especially for oxide supports. (113) The prepared catalyst with active nanoparticles or nanoclusters can be covered by a protecting layer to stabilize these active compounds. The additional shell can help prevent active sites from aggregation and exert a size limitation effect. To stabilize the Pt–Ga sites, Pt–Ga/Al2O3 catalyst coating silica layers were recently designed. (145) Tetraethyl orthosilicate as the organic silicon source was mixed with the prepared Pt–Ga/Al2O3 catalysts, which were synthesized by coimpregnation using nitrates of Pt and Ga as precursors under continuous stirring. After a series of procedures, including drying and calcination, Si@Pt–Ga/Al2O3 was prepared, as shown in Figure 7g. The silica shell covered the internal and external surface of the Pt–Ga/Al2O3 catalyst in amorphous form, as confirmed by X-ray diffraction (XRD) (Figure 7h) and TEM (Figure 7i). The encapsulation of the silica shell provided Pt active sites with a stable coordination environment, enhancing the metal–support interaction and suppressing the immigration of Pt during the PDH reaction. This catalyst exhibited outstanding catalyst stability with a deactivation rate constant of 0.007 h–1 (Figure 7j) compared to the nonshell catalyst because of the strong antisintering abilities deriving from the amorphous silica coating, as confirmed by DRIFT-CO spectra of the fresh (Figure 7k) and spent catalysts (Figure 7l). The atomic layer deposition (ALD) technique can also be used to add metal oxide overcoats for controllable encapsulation of active sites due to its self-limiting surface reaction nature. (146) A stable Pt/Al2O3 catalyst with an Al2O3 overcoat (6–8 Å thickness) added by the ALD technique was synthesized and achieved the optimal integration of stability and activity. (147) This Al2O3 overcoat binding to the undercoordinated sites on the Pt nanoparticles could effectively prevent Pt nanoparticles from sintering, thus increasing the catalytic stability.
A series of catalysts for propane dehydrogenation with high catalytic performance were designed with the specific function of physical encapsulation. The ligand-protected direct synthesis method helps to accomplish controllable encapsulation of metal or metal oxide clusters into the zeolite matrix on a nanosized or atomic scale on account of the cooperation effect among organic groups. The ALD technique possessing a wide range of application coverage provides an advanced method to encapsulate active compounds that are located on the surface of the support. At the present stage, though great progress has been made to promote the application of these strategies in large-scale industrial production, the complicated production processes and expensive raw materials are still big problems. However, the encapsulation method still has profound significance in future PDH development.