I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster as a high-efficiency catalyst for propane dehydrogenation Minimizing the use of platinum while maximizing its catalytic activity is attractive but challenging in the development of industrially important platinum catalysts. Herein, using a hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst, we report the promotion of the platinum utilization efficiency and catalytic performance for the dehydrogenation of propane. Specifically, as little as 100 ppm platinum exhibits high propane conversion (15%) and propylene selectivity (>99%) at a relatively low reaction temperature (520 C); the formation rate of propylene reaches 7.3 mol molPt1 s1, which is about 10 times higher than the best value for the reported Pt/Cu single-atom alloy catalyst. The structural analysis reveals that the abundant fault edges of the h-BN nanosheets and strong bonding of copper with the edge BO defects maintain the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, together with the metallic platinum ensemble stabilizing on the top layer of the copper cluster, leading to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This prominent promotion in catalytic efficiency is also exemplified using other supports including Al2O3, SBA-15 and SiC as counterparts.
1. Introduction
Propylene is an important and burgeoning feedstock employed in the manufacture of a vast array of key chemicals, including polypropylene, propylene oxide, acrylonitrile, and other derivatives.1 Traditionally, propylene is produced through the cracking process of petroleum-derived hydrocarbons or the multistage coal-based methanol-to-olefin process, both of which involve extensive energy consumption and enormous CO2 emissions.2,3 The catalytic dehydrogenation of propane to propylene, which was commercialized by UOP and ABB Lummus in the 1990s, represents a more economical and environmentally friendly route to increase the industrial production of propylene.46 In this process, platinum-based catalysts exhibit superior performance due to their unique activating ability for CH bonds and environment-friendly character.79 However, platinum resources are scarce in nature, and its high price has inspired researchers to develop more effective methods to optimize the platinum utilization efficiency.10,11 Adding a promoter such as tin, which dilutes the platinum surface, is a commonly used strategy to boost the platinum catalyst efficiency in the industrial dehydrogenation reaction.1214 Further improvement in the platinum utilization efficiency can be achieved by preparing small-sized clusters or even single-atom catalysts using various methods.1518 Xu et al. synthesized an ultra-small bimetallic PtSn cluster of around 0.75 nm based on the surface organometallic chemistry on oxide concept, exhibiting high specific activity (1 molC3H6 molPt1 s1) at 550 C for the dehydrogenation of propane.15 Our previous work exhibited that a PtSn cluster attached on defective γ-Al2O3 substantially promoted the reactivity and durability of platinum catalysts in the dehydrogenation of propane, and a higher rate of propylene formation, 1.6 molC3H6 molPt1 s1, was obtained at 590 C.16 A recent excellent study by Gong and co-workers indicates that isolating platinum in a copper matrix is a promising route to increase the platinum utilization efficiency, in which a Pt/Cu single-atom alloy catalyst with a low loading of platinum (0.1 wt%) displays a high formation rate of propylene at a relatively low reaction temperature (0.6 molC3H6 molPt1 s1, 520 C).17 However, considering that the bulk phase of alloys substantially buries the platinum, there is still a large room to optimize the catalytic efficiency by tailoring the structure of the Pt/Cu catalytic system. Also, it can be noted from the existing literature that a platinum loading of 0.1 wt% is the lowest reported value that can maintain considerable catalytic activity (1 molC3H6 molPt1 s1) in the dehydrogenation of propane to propylene.1520 Thus, further reducing the platinum usage while improving its catalytic activity is still urgent.
Herein, we report that a Pt/Cu cluster catalyst containing 100 ppm platinum using hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) nanosheets as a support significantly promotes the catalytic activity (>7 molC3H6 molPt1 s1, 520 C) for the dehydrogenation of propane to propylene. The geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster together with the metallic platinum ensemble stabilized on the top layer of the copper cluster is verified to be responsible for the improvement in the catalytic efficiency. Other types of supports including Al2O3, SBA-15 and SiC were used as counterparts to disclose the unique promotional effect of the h-BN nanosheets in the Pt/Cu catalytic system.
2. Experimental
2.1 Catalyst preparation
h-BN nanosheets (denoted as h-BN-sheet) were prepared using the urea-assisted ball milling method and commercially available h-BN.21 Typically, h-BN (Aladdin, 99.9%) and urea (Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd, AR) were mixed with a weight ratio of 1:10 in a steel milling container. Ball milling was carried out on a planetary ball mill (Pulverisette 7, Fritsch) at a rotation speed of 800 rpm for 2 h at room temperature. After washing treatment, the obtained powder was centrifuged and dried.
Platinum- and copper-supported h-BN-sheet catalysts (denoted as Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet) were prepared via the impregnation method using an aqueous solution of hexachloroplatinic acid (Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd) and copper nitrate (Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd) as the precursors. The typical procedure is as follows: 2.65 mg of H2PtCl6·6H2O and 380.20 mg of Cu(NO3)·3H2O were diluted in 7 mL deionized water. Subsequently, the solution was impregnated into 10.00 g of h-BN-sheet. The suspension was kept at room temperature for 2 hours and then was evaporated at 80 C under stirring. The obtained solid was dried at 100 C overnight and then calcined in 20% O2/N2 at 500 C for 4 hours, followed by reduction in a 20% H2/N2 atmosphere at 590 C for 2 hours.
2.2 Catalyst characterization
X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) measurements were obtained on a Panalytical X'pert Pro Super X-ray diffractometer using Cu Kα radiation (40 kV, 40 mA, λ = 0.15418 nm). A Micromeritics TriStar 3000 adsorption analyzer was used to measure nitrogen-sorption isotherms. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was performed on an FEI TECNAI F30 microscope operated at an accelerating voltage of 300 kV. Aberration-corrected scanning TEM (STEM) images were obtained on a Hitachi FE-S/TEM microscope operated at an accelerating voltage of 200 kV. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed on a Thermo VG ESCALAB 250 Microprobe with an Al-Kα X-ray source. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) was performed on a Nicolet 6700 FT-IR spectrometer equipped with a mercury cadmium telluride (MCT) detector and KBr window. Diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform (DRIFT) spectra were recorded on a Bruker 70 V spectrometer with an in situ reaction cell (HARRICK) and MCT detector cooled by liquid nitrogen. A sample of 50 mg was reduced at 590 C for 2 h under 20% H2/Ar. A flow of 10 mL min1 of CO was fed and continued for 5 min. Thermogravimetric (TG) analysis was performed on a NETZSCH STA 449 F3 analyzer. Prior to combustion, the catalyst was pre-treated with flowing He at 200 C for 1 h and then oxidized in 20%O2/N2.
2.3 Catalytic test of propane dehydrogenation
Propane dehydrogenation reactions were performed in a tubular fixed-bed quartz reactor under atmospheric pressure. Typically, 100 mg catalyst was used in each experiment. A reaction gas mixture with a volume ratio of C3H8:H2:N2 = 1:1:3.9 at a total flow rate of 20 mL min1 was passed through the catalyst bed at different temperatures. An on-line gas chromatograph was used to monitor the products. Conversion was defined as the number of moles of carbon converted divided by the number of moles of carbon present in the feed. Selectivity was defined as the number of moles of carbon in the product divided by the number of moles of carbon reacted.
3. Results and discussion
3.1 Synthesis and characterization of the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst
Initially, the h-BN nanosheets were obtained via urea-assisted ball-milling of bulk h-BN (Scheme 1). The XRD patterns (Fig. 1A) showed that the as-prepared sample maintained a typical hexagonal crystal phase and high crystallinity, but the characteristic (002) diffraction peak (2θ = 26.8) exhibited obvious broadening, suggesting that ball milling disrupted the layer structures of bulk h-BN.22 The TEM images display that the lateral sizes of the as-prepared sample are around hundreds of nanometers, and the particles are relatively transparent, indicating a thin sheet-like structure (Fig. S1). From some magnified TEM images (Fig. 1B and S1), abundant edges with stacking faults were observed.
Scheme 1 Schematic illustration of the synthesis of the h-BN nanosheet support and supported Pt/Cu catalyst.
Fig. 1 Characterization of h-BN nanosheet and supported Pt/Cu catalyst: (A) XRD patterns of pristine h-BN, h-BN-sheet and Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalysts; (B) representative HR-TEM image of the h-BN-sheet support; (C) nitrogen sorption isotherm of pristine h-BN, h-BN-sheet and Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalysts; (D) FT-IR spectra of the pristine h-BN, h-BN-sheet and Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalysts.
The nitrogen sorption isotherms (Fig. 1C) of h-BN before and after ball-milling were the typical IUPAC type II isotherms with a hysteresis loop in the high P/P0 region, indicating the presence of slit pores between flaky crystal particles. These results were in good agreement with the XRD and TEM results. The specific surface area of the as-prepared h-BN-sheet was calculated to be 128 m2 g1, which was 5 times higher than that of pristine h-BN (23 m2 g1). The pore volume also increased from 0.12 mL g1 for pristine h-BN to 0.37 mL g1 for h-BN-sheet. The increase in surface area and pore volume was attributed to the disruption of the bulk structure of h-BN.
Fig. 1D shows the FT-IR spectra of h-BN before and after ball-milling. Two strong peaks centered at 1376 cm1 and 819 cm1 were observed for both samples. These peaks corresponded to the BN stretching and BN bending vibrations, indicating that ball milling did not disrupt the in-plane hexagonal crystal phase of h-BN. A significant difference between the results before and after ball-milling was the appearance of a band in the range of 31503400 cm1, which can be assigned to the NH stretching vibrations, clearly disclosing that the exposed edges of the as-prepared h-BN-sheet were mainly terminated as amino groups.23 All these characteristics including high surface area, abundant edges and amino-termination imply that the as-prepared h-BN nanosheet is an appropriate support for loading the Pt/Cu catalyst.
The representative Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst was prepared by selecting hexachloroplatinic acid and copper nitrate with good coordination ability to amino groups as metal precursors.24Fig. 1A presents the XRD pattern of the catalyst. As shown in Fig. 1A, only diffraction peaks of the h-BN-sheet support can be observed, and no diffraction peaks assigned to copper or platinum are detected. The nitrogen sorption measurement (Fig. 1C) showed that the surface area exhibited an obvious decrease from 128 m2 g1 to 88 m2 g1 after loading the Pt and Cu active species, indicating the agglomeration of the h-BN-sheet particles during the process of calcination and reduction. From Fig. 1D, we can also find that the hydroxyl groups become the predominant terminating species, while the amino groups sharply decrease on the surface of the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst.
3.2 Structural analysis of Pt/Cu active phase
HR-TEM analysis for the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst was performed to investigate the structural information of its catalytically active phase. As can be seen from Fig. 2A, small-sized particles are present in this catalyst. The magnified TEM images (Fig. 2A) in the typical regions further reveal that the diameters of these particles are close to 1 nm. Few well-crystallized particles can be observed in the HR-TEM images of this catalyst. To obtain more well-defined information on the structure of the active particles, aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM analyses were carried out and the results are displayed in Fig. 2B and S2. As revealed by the HAADF-STEM images, the particles attached on the surface of h-BN-sheet displayed small lattice fringes, which can be attributed to the well-crystallized nanoparticles, suggesting that the active phase most likely existed in the form of clusters with low crystallinity.
Fig. 2 (A) HR-TEM images of the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst and (B) aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM images of representative Pt/Cu clusters of 1 nm.
From Fig. 2A, we find that the clusters are anchored on the h-BN-sheet edge with stacking faults. To obtain more geometric information on the interaction between the cluster and support, we performed detailed STEM analysis by correlating the dark-field (ADF) STEM imaging that was more sensitive to the Pt/Cu clusters with the bright-field (BF) STEM imaging that was more sensitive to h-BN-sheet. Fig. 3 and S3 show the ADF-STEM and BF-STEM images in different resolutions for the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst. As shown in Fig. 3A, the clusters with low crystallinity are the predominant species in this catalyst, with the lateral sizes of 12 nm. Corresponding to the ADF-STEM images, the BF-STEM images at the same position exhibit that these clusters are tightly attached to the edge domains with stacking faults, verifying the HR-TEM observation. More directly, these clusters seemed to be partly trapped in the carrier. These findings clearly suggest that there exists a strong interaction between the Pt/Cu clusters and the h-BN-sheet edge.
Fig. 3 Aberration-corrected STEM analyses for the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst: (A) representative ADF images and (B) corresponding BF images.
Furthermore, the DRIFT spectra for CO chemisorption were used to disclose the chemical states of platinum and copper as well as their possible interactions.17,25 As seen in Fig. 4A, there are two CO-absorbed bands at 2044 cm1 and 2124 cm1. According to the literature, the band located at 20632044 cm1 can be assigned to linearly adsorbed CO on the platinum ensemble on the Pt/Cu bimetallic nanoparticles, while the band centered at 2018 cm1 is attributed to CO adsorption on the single atoms of platinum isolated on the surface of copper nanoparticles.17 In our case, the presence of a band at 2044 cm1 indicates that platinum is well dispersed on the surface of copper clusters in the form of small metallic ensembles. For copper, the CO-adsorbed band at 2124 cm1 also reveals the coexistence of cuprous species, most likely binding together on the surface of the support.26 Fig. 4 (A) CO-DRIFT spectra and (BD) B1s, N1s and O1s XPS spectra of the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst, respectively.
XPS was performed to further clarify the possible bonding interaction on the catalyst surface. As shown in the O1s spectrum (Fig. 4D), the surface of the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst contains a few oxygen heteroatoms, which is consistent with the results (Fig. 1D) obtained from FT-IR. The component evaluation displayed that the oxygen content was 5.5% (Fig. 4D and S4). The peak fitting (Fig. 4B) of the B1s spectrum further identified two types of boron species: plane BN pairs and edge BO defects.27,28 Different from neutron BN pairs, the BO bond with unpaired electrons could strongly interact with cupreous species; meanwhile, the high affinity of the BO defects for electrons helped strengthen their interaction.2931 Furthermore, the Cu2p spectrum (Fig. S5) confirmed that the copper species interacted with the surface of h-BN-sheet through the CuO bonds. Taken together, the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects maintained low-crystallized cluster geometry, accordingly promoting both the dispersion and stability of catalytically active species, while the small platinum ensembles stabilized on the top layer of the copper cluster provided accessible platinum ensembles in the metallic state, which are recognized as ideal dehydrogenation sites.
3.3 Catalytic performances in propane dehydrogenation
Propane dehydrogenation was performed in a fixed-bed reactor using a feed of 17.1 kPa C3H8, 17.1 kPa H2, and N2 balance with a space velocity of 4.0 gC3H8 g1 h1. No measurable conversion of propane was observed over h-BN-sheet (Fig. S6). Two single-component catalysts, 0.01 wt% Pt/h-BN-sheet and 1.0 wt% Cu/h-BN-sheet, were selected as references. As shown in Fig. 5A, both catalysts exhibit very low conversion of propane despite displaying certain selectivity toward propylene, whereas over the bi-component catalyst, 0.01wt% Pt/1.0wt% Cu/h-BN-sheet, the propane conversion reached 15%, and propylene selectivity exceeded 99%. Compared to the Al2O3-supported 0.1wt% Pt/10wt% Cu catalyst reported in the literature,17 our catalyst system only containing 100 ppm platinum exhibited comparable propane conversion and higher propylene selectivity under the same reaction conditions for the dehydrogenation of propane (Table 1).
Fig. 5 Catalytic performances in propane dehydrogenation: (A) propane conversion and propylene selectivity over the Pt/h-BN-sheet, Cu/h-BN-sheet and Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalysts; (B) effect of copper loading on propane conversion and propylene selectivity over the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst; (C) effect of support type on the propane conversion and propylene selectivity of the Pt/Cu catalyst; and (D) propane conversion and propylene selectivity as a function of time over the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet and Pt/Cu/Al2O3 catalysts. Reaction conditions: temperature, 520 C; catalyst weight, 100 mg; gas feed, 17.1 kPa C3H8, 17.1 kPa H2, and N2 balance; space velocity, 4.0 gC3H8 g1 h1.
Table 1 Catalytic performances in the dehydrogenation of propane over the catalyst in this work and typical catalysts reported in the literature Catalyst Feed [kPa] Temp. [C] Space velocity [gC3H8 g1 h1] Conv. [%] Sel. [%] Specific activity [molC3H6 molPt1 s1] Ref.
C3H8 H2 Initial Final Initial Final
0.01wt% Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet 17.1 17.1 520 4.0 14.7 11.9 99.8 99.9 7.25 This work
0.1wt% Pt/Cu/Al2O3 16 16 520 4.0 13.1 12.4 87.0 89.0 0.56 17
0.5wt% PtCu/Al2O3   600 3.0 44.2 40.0 83.0 90.8  32
1.0wt% PtCu/MgAl2O4 47.5 47.5 580 6.8 25.7 21.0 87.5 93.1 0.79 33
0.5wt% PtSn/Al2O3 10.1 10.1 550 11.8 43.0 37.0 98.0 99.0 1.01 15
0.1wt% PtNa[Fe]/ZSM-5 25  520 15.1 33.0 13.0 98.3 99.8 1.51 34
0.1wt% Pt-Zn/HZSM5 5  525 0.4 52.5 46.0 85.5 94.0 0.22 35
0.1 wt% PtGaK/Al2O3 101  620 10.6 46.0 35.0 96.0 92.0 0.58 36
To quantitatively evaluate the platinum utilization efficiency in the dehydrogenation of propane, we normalized the catalytic activity of propylene formation using a specific content of platinum, i.e., moles of propylene formed per mole of platinum per second; the results are listed in Table 1 and S1. From the comparison of the specific activity and reaction temperature of the catalyst described in this work with those of the catalysts reported in the literature, we found that the h-BN-sheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst in our case displayed very high catalytic activity for producing propylene (7.3 molC3H6 molPt1 s1) at a relatively low reaction temperature (520 C), which was approximately ten-fold higher than that of its Pt/Cu nanoparticle counterpart.17 Together with its trace platinum usage and low-temperature activity, this catalyst provides a potential alternative to the state-of-the-art platinum catalysts for the dehydrogenation of propane.3740 The effect of the reaction temperature on the catalytic performances of the 0.01wt% Pt/1.0wt% Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst in the dehydrogenation of propane is compared in Fig. S7. As the reaction temperature increased from 520 C to 600 C, the initial conversion of propane had a slow increase from 15% to 24% and the selectivity for propylene decreased from 99.8% to 97.3%, but a high temperature also led to decline in stability during the dehydrogenation test (Fig. S8). This result highlights the potential application of the present system in the low-temperature region.
3.4 Propertystructure correlation
For bi-component catalysts, composition is a significant factor influencing their geometric and electronic structures, which determines their catalytic behavior. In the Pt/Cu system, it was established that copper can dilute the surface platinum atoms in geometry, which generally affects the catalytic activity; meanwhile, it can alter the electronic environment of the surface atoms that can promote the desorption of propylene and enhance its selectivity.17,32,33 Recently, some theoretical studies also revealed the importance of the atomic ensemble effect on tuning the adsorbate binding on the surface of alloys.41 Thus, to reveal the contribution of these effects in our case, we carefully investigated the effect of the copper amount on propane conversion and propylene selectivity. As shown in Fig. 5B, with an increase in the copper amount from 0.1 wt% to 0.3 wt%, the propane conversion exhibits a sharp increase, while the propylene selectivity only has a slight increase, implying that the geometric dilution of platinum by copper likely predominates the catalytic performance. Upon further increasing the copper amount from 0.5 wt%, both the conversion and selectivity exhibited a slight increase. Statistically, the greater the amount of copper, the smaller the Pt ensembles. Evidently, the sizes of Pt ensembles did not influence the conversion and especially selectivity in our case. These results also imply the importance of the interaction of copper with the support for the improvement in catalytic performance.
To further understand the unique promotion effect of the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst for the dehydrogenation of propane, other supports including Al2O3, SBA-15 and SiC were used as counterparts to load 0.01 wt% Pt and 1.0 wt% Cu. Fig. 5C presents the catalytic performances of propane dehydrogenation over a series of Pt/Cu catalysts. The Pt/Cu catalyst using h-BN-sheet as the support exhibited the highest conversion (15%) of propane among the four catalysts, while over the four Pt/Cu catalysts, the selectivities towards propylene were almost the same. Moreover, the durability of the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst in the propane dehydrogenation reaction was evaluated by comparison with its Pt/Cu/Al2O3 counterpart. As revealed in Fig. 5D, the dehydrogenation reaction over the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst displays a smaller decrease in propane conversion relative to that over Pt/Cu/Al2O3, and propylene selectivity is always maintained at 99.8% during a 6-hour reaction test. All these experimental facts well support the conclusion that the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst can significantly enhance the catalytic performances for the dehydrogenation of propane.
Different from other supports, h-BN-sheet provides abundant stacking fault edges terminating with the BO defects. These BO defects include unpaired electrons, which can strongly interact with metal active species; meanwhile, the high affinity of the BO defects for electrons helps strengthen the interaction between the metal and support.29,4244 This unique bonding interaction integrated with its influence on the structure of the Pt/Cu cluster should be the origin of the promotional effect in propane dehydrogenation of the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst. Many studies also revealed that modifying copper catalysts with boric oxide is an effective way to improve catalytic activity and stability.30,31,45 On the one hand, the induction of boric oxide can promote the dispersion of copper. In our case, the geometric dilution of platinum by copper was confirmed to predominate the catalytic activity for the dehydrogenation of propane. On the other hand, boron has higher electronegativity than aluminum and silicon, which leads to a stronger interaction of copper with boric oxide than with aluminum and silicon oxide. As exemplified by using other carrier-supported Pt/Cu catalysts (see Fig. 5D), this enhanced interaction plays an important role in stabilizing the Pt/Cu clusters and leading to good catalytic stability.
In addition, boron induction tended to influence the valence distributions of copper species. In our case, the metallic platinum ensembles dispersed in copper clusters were proven to be the active sites for dehydrogenation, while the copper species were the geometric diluters and stabilizers for platinum. The compositional effect (see Fig. 5B) on catalytic behaviors further exhibited that the sizes of the platinum ensembles did not influence the catalytic activity of the catalysts with a high copper content (>0.5 wt%). Thus, the valence state of copper should not be the determining factor for the catalytic behaviors. Overall, the unique strong bonding interaction between copper and the edge BO defects integrated with metallic platinum ensembles stabilized on the top layer of the copper clusters is the crucial factor that determines the catalytic performance of the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst in the dehydrogenation of propane.
3.5 Characterization of the spent catalyst
The spent catalyst was characterized to provide more information to further improve the reactivity and stability of the Pt/Cu catalysts. As shown in Fig. 5D, although the Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst exhibits superior activity and stability to that of its counterparts, there exists slow deactivation during the dehydrogenation reaction. Thus, to reveal the reason for deactivation, we first performed analysis for possible coke deposition. The results (Fig. 6A) of TG exhibited that very little carbon deposition (0.2%) existed on the spent catalyst. The HR-TEM examination (Fig. 6B and S9) confirmed that the sizes of the Pt/Cu particles grew up to 5 nm after the reaction. In the CO-DRIFTS measurement, no adsorption of CO was found on the spent catalyst (Fig. S10). HR-TEM analysis further revealed that the particles in the spent catalyst were covered by multi-layer amorphous matter. These covering layers most likely consisted of BOx species, which precipitated under the reaction conditions.
Fig. 6 (A) TG profile, (B) HR-TEM image, and (C) CO-DRIFT spectra of the regenerated Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst. (D) Catalytic performances of the regenerated Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst in propane dehydrogenation.
To verify the above-mentioned deduction and develop regenerating methods in our case, the powder of the spent catalyst was further treated using deionized water at 80 C to remove the covering matter. The reappearance of the CO-absorbed peak (Fig. 6C) in the DRIFTS measurements for the washed catalyst clearly indicates that the covering layers have been successfully removed. Fig. 6D further presents the catalytic reaction results of the washed catalyst in the dehydrogenation of propane. As exemplified by Fig. 6D, through washing treatment, the initial conversion of propane and propylene selectivity basically recovered to the initial values over the fresh Pt/Cu/h-BN-sheet catalyst, and the evolution of these catalytic indexes during the 6-hour dehydrogenation reaction was also similar to that of the fresh catalyst.
4. Conclusion
In summary, we demonstrate that the h-BN nanosheet has excellent ability to disperse and stabilize Pt/Cu clusters. The abundant fault edges of the h-BN nanosheets and strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects maintain the unique geometry and electronic state of the Pt/Cu clusters, providing an ideal dehydrogenation center for propane to produce propylene. Consequently, only trace platinum can achieve the considerable conversion (15%) of propane and high selectivity (99.8%) toward propylene at a relatively low reaction temperature (520 C). Notably, the present catalyst showed a very high specific activity of propylene formation, 7.3 molC3H6 molPt1 s1, greatly promoting the platinum utilization efficiency. Our presented novel catalyst system is characterized by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, which can also be expanded to other energy-related catalytic processes involving platinum catalysts.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 