<quotes>
3.1. Catalyst preparation
The bimetallic catalysts prepared are shown in Table 1 . The progress of the reaction of the ferrocene solution with the monometallic catalysts, was followed by monitoring evolution of the reaction products using GC analysis of the gas phase. Cyclopentane was observed after a short induction period, rising rapidly to a maximum after about 1 h, and then decreasing until, after 24 h, only small quantities were observed, indicating that at 298 K the reaction had neared completion. A similar initial burst in the reaction activity has been reported previously for the deposition of tin on Pt/C [8] and ruthenium on Platinum Black [11] using SOMC and was attributed to a proportion of the active sites being more active than the rest and reacting quickly during the initial stages of the preparation [11] . On heating the reaction to 343353 K further evolution occurred until after about 8 h no further products were observed. In addition, the colour intensity of the orange ferrocene in heptane solution was seen to decrease over the course of the reaction, disappearing completely after heating at 353 K indicating that complete reaction of the ferrocene had occurred. A comparison of the nominal loading of the iron with that determined experimentally (given in Table 1 ) indicates that almost all of the iron introduced to the monometallic catalysts was successfully deposited.

3.2. Characterisation
3.2.1. Chemisorption and TEM
The chemisorption results for the bimetallic catalysts are also shown in Table 1 . Inspection of the results indicates a decrease in the volume of hydrogen adsorbed by the bimetallic catalysts compared to the parent monometallic catalysts. Under our experimental conditions no hydrogen chemisorption was observed for iron supported on alumina, and assuming that each component retains its bulk properties, the hydrogen uptake by the bimetallic catalysts was attributed solely to the noble metal. A control experiment performed using an identical preparative procedure but without the ferrocene resulted in no significant difference in the dispersion value of the palladium monometallic indicating that no significant sintering has occurred during the heat treatment involved in the preparation procedure. The TEM also indicated that the particle size of the palladium catalysts did not increase significantly on addition of the iron, with an average particle size of approximately 5 nm for both the monometallic and bimetallic palladium materials.

EDX analysis of areas of the support where no metal particles were observed by the microscope did indicate the presence of palladium providing evidence for particles below 2 nm. A representative TEM micrograph is shown in Fig. 1 for Pd-Fe/Al2O3, with histograms showing particle size for both Pd/Al2O3 and Pd-Fe/Al2O3 in Fig. 2 . The decrease in the amount of hydrogen chemisorbed observed is therefore not likely to be a consequence of a change in particle size. Assuming that the heat of adsorption and the stoichiometry of adsorption of hydrogen are not significantly influenced by the addition of the second metal, this suggests that the number of surface sites available for hydrogen chemisorption has decreased upon addition of the iron.

3.2.2. EDX analysis
The EDX analysis was performed by reducing the size of the electron beam to focus on areas occupied by individual metal particles on the surface of the support. The EDX analysis of the area occupied by a single particle of the Pd-Fe/Al2O3 is shown in Fig. 3 . Characteristic lines for both palladium and iron are clearly visible providing evidence for the presence of iron and palladium together in the area occupied by the particle. No isolated particles of the second metal were observed on the support when focussing the beam on areas of the support alone where palladium was absent. Thus, within the detection limits of the technique, the palladium and iron were found to exist together, with no evidence for the presence of isolated iron or iron oxides on the support.

3.2.3. EPR
The EPR spectra of a 4 wt.% Pd-Fe/Al2O3 catalyst with a nominal iron coverage of half a monolayer equivalent are shown in Fig. 4 after reduction and on exposure to air. This catalyst was chosen specifically to raise the palladium loading of the monometallic to enable a higher loading of iron (nominally 0.25 wt.% corresponding to half a monolayer coverage) to be added to the catalyst. Two peaks were obtained in the EPR spectra of the 4 wt.% Pd-Fe/Al2O3 at g=4.24.3 and g=2.1. The relative intensity of these peaks, shown in Table 2 , was found to change significantly on exposure of the reduced catalyst to air. The peak at g=4.3 can be assigned to Fe(III) in a rhombic environment. The intensity of this peak did not obey Curies Law but showed a weak antiferromagnetic exchange. The signal at g=2.1 is similar to broad resonance signals quoted in the literature for Pd-Fe catalysts generally assigned to metallic iron in interaction with palladium or a PdFe alloy. The temperature variation of the intensity of the feature at g=2.1 was found to be consistent with this assignment, of ferromagnetic iron, most likely metallic iron, in the reduced sample.

Table 2. Relative peak intensity of EPR peaks at g=2.1/4.3 for a 4 wt.% Pd-Fe/Al2O3 and 0.7 wt.% Pt-Fe/Al2O3 prepared using SOMC

Condition Relative intensity of peaks at g=2.1/4.3 Pd-Fe/Al2O3 Pt-Fe/Al2O3 As prepared, after long term exposure to air 0.2 2 Reduced 190 47 On exposure to air after 5 min 60 9 1 h after opened 6 5 h after opened 45 1 day 30 4 45 days 15 4 10 days 15 6 months 15
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The bimetallic catalysts were prepared by the surface organometallic route using ferrocene. The progress of the reaction was monitored using GC analysis. The reaction produced cyclopentane after 1 hour, indicating near completion. The color intensity of the ferrocene solution decreased over the course of the reaction, suggesting complete reaction. The EDX analysis showed the presence of iron and palladium together on the support.

2. The chemisorption results indicate a decrease in hydrogen adsorption on the bimetallic catalysts compared to the monometallic ones. No hydrogen chemisorption was observed for iron supported on alumina. The TEM showed that the particle size of the palladium catalysts did not increase significantly upon addition of iron. The EDX analysis confirmed that the palladium and iron were together on the support.

3. The EPR spectra showed two peaks at g=4.24.3 and g=2.1. The peak at g=4.3 corresponds to Fe(III) in a rhombic environment. The peak at g=2.1 is similar to broad resonance signals assigned to metallic iron in interaction with palladium or a PdFe alloy. The intensity of the g=2.1 peak changed significantly on exposure to air, suggesting metallic iron in the reduced sample.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 铁基双金属催化剂通过表面有机金属路线用铁络合物制备。反应过程通过GC分析监测，产生了环戊烷，表示接近完成。铁络合物溶液的颜色强度随时间逐渐降低，表明反应完全。EDX分析显示钯和铁共同存在于支撑体上。

2. 吸附结果表明，双金属催化剂上的氢吸附量低于单金属催化剂。铝氧化物上的铁没有观察到氢吸附。透射电子显微镜显示，添加铁后钯催化剂的颗粒尺寸没有显著增加。EDX分析证实钯和铁共同存在于支撑体上。

3. 根据EPR光谱，发现了两个峰，分别在g=4.24.3和g=2.1处。g=4.3处的峰对应于三价铁在四方环境中的存在。g=2.1处的峰类似于广泛引用的Pd-Fe催化剂中金属铁与钯或PdFe合金的相互作用的信号。在暴露于空气后，g=2.1峰的强度发生了显著变化，这表明还原样品中存在铁。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
