2.2. 2-D Dispersed Active Sites in B-Based Catalysts for the ODHP Reaction
The 2-D dispersed active sites can be developed by doping the active boron oxide/boron hydroxyl units on the surface of diverse hosting materials. Moreover, the exposed surface of bulk boride materials can also be regarded as the 2-D dispersed active sites for the ODHP reaction. Compared with the linearly dispersed edge sites, the density of active site can be significantly improved. Consequently, B nanomaterials with 2-D active sites have drawn extensive interest from researchers in the ODHP reaction because of their unique structural features.
2.2.1. 2-D BN Active Sites
As BN was initially reported to be highly selective for olefins during the oxidative dehydrogenation, the 1-D edge sites have been hypothesized to be where the BN oxidation occurs that catalyzes the ODH reaction. However, some recent studies revealed a substantial increase in the surface oxygen content after exposure to ODH conditions. Hermans’s group (82) revised their previous hypotheses of hydroxylated BN edges as the active component on h-BN via advanced mixed characterization techniques including NMR spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and soft X-ray absorption spectroscopy. An amorphous B(OH)xO3–x phase with different degrees of hydroxylation was formed on the surface of h-BN and BNNT following exposure to ODH conditions, which indicates that the oxidation region of h-BN and BNNT catalysts is not only limited to the edge sites.
Creating defects and holes in the plane of the BN nanosheet is also an efficient method for creating 2-D dispersed active sites. Recently, Huang et al. (83) prepared a high-surface-area h-BN catalyst (72.7 m2 g–1) via a novel gas exfoliation method and achieved a significant increase in specific activity compared with that obtained using bulk h-BN, suggesting that the defects formed in the h-BN sheet could also serve as active sites for the ODHP reaction. (84) Moreover, the local chemical environment of h-BN could be regulated by N2-plasma treatment by breaking linked chemical bonds in a controlled manner and abstracting the N element in the plane of BN, resulting in more three-coordinated-B center N-defects formation and a remarkable ODH reaction performance (54) (Figure 4a).


2.2.2. 2-D Supported BOx Active Site
Through the study of h-BN catalysts, researchers have realized the importance of B–O or B–OH species for the ODHP reaction. Therefore, the direct application of BOx-based materials to ODHP is a very promising direction. However, because the melting point of boron oxide (450 °C) is lower than the operating temperature of ODHP (480–560 °C), the sintering and loss of boron oxide species will occur under reaction conditions. Therefore, the construction of 2-D boron oxide-supported catalysts with B–O species loading on the surface of the carrier is important to improve the stability and dispersion of the BO species. The commonly employed carriers include Al2O3, ZrO2, TiO2, SiO2, and MgO. (48−50,85,86) In earlier studies, supported boron oxide catalysts have been employed as catalysts for the ODH of light alkanes. (62,87) In the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, (88) a boron oxide supported on nonporous Al2O3 was prepared by chemical vapor deposition with a loading of 30 wt %, which was a relatively high loading owing to the leaching of B under reaction conditions. An ethene yield of 16.7% at an ethane conversion of 18.7% could be achieved, and the main byproducts of this catalytic system were CO and CH4. The B2O3/Al2O3 catalyst was also used by Buyevskaya and co-workers (62,87) for ODHP, and the highest selectivity of propene was 42% at 30% propane conversion. In addition, the selectivity of C1–C3 oxygenates was up to 28%. In the alumina–boron catalyst system, the high selectivity of deep oxidation products, such as oxygenates, CO, and CO2, was because of the strong acidic sites generated by depositing boron oxide onto amphoteric alumina. The introduction of boron oxide onto the surface of an inert support could be a potential catalyst strategy to reduce undesirable side reactions. The 2-D supported catalysts B/SiO2 were synthesized via incipient wetness impregnation using a precursor solution of tri-isopropyl borate. (51) The conversion–selectivity trend of this catalyst was similar to that over h-BN (Figure 4b). Compared with the B2O3/Al2O3 catalyst, (62) the B/SiO2 catalyst exhibited a higher selectivity of propene (76.9% versus 52.5%) and relative equivalent selectivity of ethene (14% versus 14.7%). Conversely, the oxygenate selectivity over the B/SiO2 catalyst (7.1%) was much lower than that of the B2O3/Al2O3 catalyst (18.1%). Hence, the physicochemical properties of the support exert a considerable effect on the ODHP performance of the 2-D BOx-supported catalyst system. However, because of the volatility of the B precursor, any additional B precursor that could not readily react with the silica support to form strong bonding will evaporate from the surface during calcination. Consequently, the maximum B loading on SiO2 is only ∼2%, which restricts the improvement of propene yield.
2.2.3. 2-D Dispersed Active Sites in Nonmetal Borides
As the B species are loaded on the surface of the 2-D support, the low loading and loss of active species result in a limited number of active sites and restrict the enhancement of its catalytic activity. Compared with the commonly used carbon and silicon supported catalysts, the construction of a 2-D dispersed B active site by directly bonding B atoms to C or Si atoms can significantly improve the stability of the B active component. Boron carbide is generally considered a chemically inert material with super hardness, high melting, and wear resistance. (89−92) Recently, Hermans’s group (52) reported that B4C also showed a similar product distribution to that of the h-BN catalyst in the ODHP reaction. Although the reactivity was relatively low, the propene selectivity over the B4C catalyst was high with ethene as the main byproduct. For example, under the reaction temperature of 500 °C, the B4C catalyst could achieve a propene selectivity of ∼85% at the propane conversion of 7%.
Silicon boride (SiB3–6), a metal-free material enriched in B sites, has been applied by Yan et al. (53) for ODH of ethane, propane, and isobutane. Just like commercial h-BN, commercial silicon boride also exhibits high selectivity to olefin products. For ODHP, the TOF was 9 × 10–4 mol·s–1·molsite–1 at 535 °C and the selectivity of propylene was 82.2% with a propane conversion of 19.2%. The selectivity of total olefins including ethylene and propylene reached 94.4% and the selectivity of overoxidation products of COx was only 5.2%, which was superior over the silicon boride catalyst to that over most metal oxide catalysts (93,94) and carbon materials. (71,95) The olefins selectivity and productivities of the silicon boride catalyst system were even higher than those of other boride catalysts, (52) but the product distributions were similar, suggesting that similar active sites could be formed under the reaction conditions. These were the B–OH groups generated from the “BO species” after the oxygen functionalization, as was supported by the results of the acquired spectra and dynamics analysis (Figure 4c). This study provided a new strategy to design catalysts, which made researchers realize that in addition to the BN systems and BOx materials, the SiBx materials were also promising candidates for efficient oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene with less peroxidation side reactions. However, considering the application potential, the reported activity and yield of commercial BN and SiB3–6 do not meet the requirements of industrialization. One of the important reasons for the limitation of catalytic activity is the relatively low amount of B-containing active sites.
2.2.4. 2-D Active Sites in Metal Borides
In addition to the metal-free materials, metal boride catalysts, including titanium boride (TiB2), nickel boride (NiB), cobalt boride (Co2B/Co3B), hafnium boride (HfB2), and tungsten boride (WB), were investigated by Grant et al. for ODHP. (52) Unprecedented selectivity to propene was observed for these metal boride catalysts, and the main byproduct was ethene rather than COx (Figure 4d). By contrast, the B-free TiN catalyst showed poor ODHP activity with low propane conversion and propene selectivity. This indicates that B is necessary for the high selectivity of propene, rather than the metal or nonmetallic element that was coordinated with B. Notably, although the B-metal catalysts showed similar propene selectivity, the activity and the propane consumption rate over these catalysts were quite different. Moreover, this distinction did not scale with the surface area of the B-containing catalyst (Figure 4d). Thus, the different catalytic activities were likely due to the differences in the active site density and/or electronic interactions between the surface and bulk phase of metal boride materials.
2.2.5. Exploration of Active Sites on 2-D B-Based Materials
With the further development of research on this subject, more B-containing materials have been used in ODHP reactions and the real active sites on 2-D catalysts have been discussed from different perspectives. Grant et al. (52) found that boron carbide (B4C), titanium boride (TiB2), nickel boride (NiB), cobalt boride (Co2B/Co3B), hafnium boride (HfB2), and tungsten boride (WB), as well as elemental B, showed similar behavior to BN with an analogous surface-stabilized BOx as the active site. This finding overturned the views of the edge sites or B–OH of h-BN as the active sites for the ODHP reaction. As the crystal structures of the studied boride catalysts differed from that of h-BN, B was the necessary element to achieve high olefin selectivity. The XPS results verified that oxygen was functionalized onto the surfaces of B-containing catalysts during the ODHP reaction. Because the reaction temperature (∼500 °C) exceeded the melting point of B2O3, the species formed by oxygen functionalization cannot be bulk B2O3. Otherwise, the catalyst would deactivate rapidly owing to the loss of active sites during the reaction. Actually, all the studied catalysts exhibited high stability. Further, the attenuated total reflectance infrared spectroscopy results suggest that the B–OH moiety observed by Shi et al. (41) also did not appear on B4C, TiB2, NiB, Co2B/Co3B, HfB2, and WB catalysts except for h-BN or elemental B. This was in agreement with the in situ diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy results obtained by Huang et al. (79) No B–OH signal was observed during the ODH of ethane over the h-BN catalyst. Therefore, the study of the nature of coordination of B is important to reveal the structure–performance relationship. However, the complexity of the oxygenated surface species makes the study difficult. To address this challenges, a combination of 11B solid-state NMR, SEM, and soft-XAS was used to characterize the molecular structure of the oxygen-functionalized phase that was formed on h-BN and BNNT during the catalytic testing for ODHP. (82) On the basis of the solid-state NMR experiments, the broad range of NMR signals in the oxide chemical shift region was assigned to an oxygenated surface phase denoted as B(OH)xO3–x, resulting from the varying degrees of oxidation/hydrolysis of the BN materials under the propane ODH reaction conditions. This was consistent with the results of the XAS studies on the fresh and spent h-BN that an increase in BO3-coordinated species occurred on the surface of h-BN with different numbers of bridging oxide and hydroxyl groups.
To further understand the structure of the boron oxide catalysts and their structure–activity relationship in ODHP, Love et al. (51) studied the silica-supported B catalysts (B/SiO2) and used a spectroscopic method (IR, in situ Raman) and solid-state NMR to understand the evolution of the B species and their restructuralization into stable active sites. The proposed species on fresh and spent B/SiO2 and the corresponding method of elucidation are shown in Figure 4b. According to the IR spectra of the fresh and spent B/SiO2 catalysts, for higher B loading samples, the number of isolated B–OH groups decreased owing to loss of the B after propane ODH for 24 h on stream. Meanwhile, the isolated Si–OH groups regenerated following B leaching from the surface with an increase in quantities of isolated Si–OH groups. As the in situ Raman of the fresh B/SiO2 shows, the loaded boric acid condensed to form six-membered boroxol rings above 100 °C. However, these six-membered boroxol rings tended to degrade under the given condition and were restructured to metaborate species, such as B(OH)xO3–x/B2(OH)2xO5–x. Solid-state NMR revealed that the B species restructured and shifted to a higher degree of B agglomeration. This finding was verified by comparing the 11B DQ-SQ spectra for the fresh and spent materials at similar accumulation times with a higher signal-to-noise ratio and a better overlap with the 11B spin–echo spectrum for the spent material. (44) This agglomerated oxidized B species comprised chains of BO3 units, corresponding to the results of a recent computational study that predicted the formation of a highly dynamic oxide phase on the surface of h-BN under the given reaction conditions. (96)
