Recent conceptual advances in the catalysis
science of mixed metal oxide catalytic materials
Israel E. Wachs*
Operando Molecular Spectroscopy and Catalysis Laboratory, Department of Chemical Engineering,
Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA 18015, USA
Available online 18 January 2005
Abstract
The catalysis science of mixed metal oxides (supported metal oxides, molecular sieves and bulk mixed metal oxides) has undergone
dramatic paradigm changes over the past 25 years as new characterization techniques became available (X-ray absorption spectroscopy
(EXAFS/XANES/soft XANES), Raman, solid-state NMR, HR-TEM, UV–vis DRS and LEISS) to catalysis researchers. The major
advantages offered by these spectroscopic improvements are that (1) they can detect XRD inactive amorphous surface metal oxide phases
as well as crystalline nanophases and (2) their ability to collect information under various environmental conditions. Application of these
spectroscopic techniques to the investigation of mixed metal oxide catalysts have provided new fundamental insights into the electronic and
molecular structures of mixed metal oxide catalytic active sites and how they control the catalytic activity and selectivity characteristics. The
most signiﬁcant discovery has been that amorphous metal oxide phases are always present and are the catalytic active sites for many
applications of mixed metal oxide catalysts. This has resulted in a signiﬁcant paradigm shift as to how mixed metal oxide catalytic materials
function for different applications. This article reviews the instrumental advances and the resulting conceptual advances that have evolved
over the past 25 years in the catalysis science of mixed metal oxide catalysts.
# 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Catalysts; Metal oxides; Supported; Molecular sieves; Bulk; Vanadium oxide; V2O5; Oxidation; CH3OH; C3H8; C4H10; SO2; CH3SH; Thiophene
1. Introduction
The catalysis science of metal-based catalysts, bulk as
well as supported, was signiﬁcantly advanced in the 1970s
by (1) introduction of selective chemisorption methods to
determine the number of exposed metal sites, (2) transmis-
sion electron microscopy (TEM) for imaging the structure
and morphology of the metallic components, (3) X-ray
diffraction (XRD) for determining the volume average
particle dimensions, (4) X-ray absorption spectroscopy
(EXAFS/XANES) for determining local coordination, and
(5) UHV model single crystal studies [1–5]. This allowed for
the successful quantitative comparison of reaction rates
between different catalysis laboratories as well as supported
metal catalysts and model large single crystals [1–3]. In
contrast, the catalysis science of mixed metal oxide catalysts
was not sufﬁciently developed in the 1970s and signiﬁcantly
lagged the rapid advances being achieved in the catalysis
science of metal catalysts [6,7]. The major reasons for the
much slower development of the catalysis science of mixed
metal oxide catalysts are (1) that mixed metal oxide catalysts
are signiﬁcantly more complex than metal-based catalysts
(e.g., possible presence of multiple oxidation states, variable
local coordination, coexisting bulk and surface phases as
well as different surface termination functionalities such as
M–OH, M=O, or M–O–M) and (2) the need for the
development of new spectroscopic methods that can
determine such fundamental electronic and molecular
structural details. The objective of this article is to review
the growth of mixed metal oxide catalysis science over the
past three decades and to assess the current status of this
important area of catalysis. Zeolitic materials will not be
discussed in this article since by deﬁnition their structures
are made up from Al and Si TO4 units that are not metal
oxides [8]. Molecular sieves containing transition metal
www.elsevier.com/locate/cattod
Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
* Tel.: +1 610 7584274; fax: +1 610 7586555.
E-mail address: iew0@lehigh.edu.
0920-5861/$ – see front matter # 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.cattod.2004.12.019
oxides (e.g., Ti, V, Nb, etc.), however, will be covered in this
article on mixed metal oxides. Another class of emerging
mixed metal oxide catalysts is Keggin, Anderson and
Dawson clusters, which has recently been reviewed [9,10].
2. Development of spectroscopic instrumentation
2.1. 1950s–1970s
The past three decades has seen a revolution in the
development of spectroscopic catalyst characterization
techniques and many of these instrumental advances have
had signiﬁcant impacts on the challenging catalysis science
of mixed metal oxide catalytic materials. These spectro-
scopic instruments serve are our ‘‘eyes’’ into the sub-
nanometer molecular world of catalytic metal oxide surfaces
and their novel surface chemistry with different molecules.
Consequently, not surprisingly, many of the recent advances
in catalysis science have paralleled the development of new
spectroscopic instrumentation during this rapidly expanding
period. There were several events prior to the past three
decades that set the stage for the advances that occurred in
this time period. Mapes and Eischens reported the ﬁrst
successful demonstration of in situ infrared (IR) spectro-
scopic measurements of chemisorbed molecules on catalytic
metals and zeolites in 1954 [11]. These groundbreaking
studies showed that with IR spectroscopy it was possible to
discriminate between surface Lewis and Bronsted acids by
chemisorption of NH3 and measure the vibrational spectrum
of NH3(ads) and NH4(ads)
+, respectively. Lunsford and
Kazasky were among the ﬁrst catalysis researchers that
were active in the 1960s in developing electron proton
resonance (EPR) techniques for characterization of catalytic
materials and surface intermediates [12]. It was shown by
these and other researchers that were active in this area at the
time that EPR can provide information about the presence
and local coordination of paramagnetic species (e.g., Mo+5,
V+4, Cr+5, Cr+3, etc.). Siegbahn also developed X-ray
photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) in the late 1950s and
1960s that allows determination of the surface region of
catalytic materials [13]. These exciting developments in
XPS led to the introduction of commercial XPS units in the
1970s
[14].
Solid-state
magic
angle
spinning-nuclear
magnetic resonance (MAS-NMR) and intense monochro-
matic lasers were just being developed in the late 1960s.
However, the discovery of XRD at the beginning of the 20th
century to determine long range order of crystalline phases
dominated the available catalyst characterization arsenal
due to its sound scientiﬁc development over the century.
This was the status of the spectroscopic characterization
methods available to catalysis researchers 30 years ago.
These spectroscopic capabilities, however, were not
developed enough to signiﬁcantly advance the catalysis
science of catalytic mixed metal oxide materials with the
exception of XRD. Although IR provided information about
chemisorbed molecules on oxide surfaces, it was not able to
provide fundamental molecular structural information about
the metal oxide catalytic active sites on surfaces because
such vibrations are typically obscured by the strong bulk or
oxide support vibrations in the region of interest, usually
appearing below 1000 cm1, and many of the chemical
probe molecules developed for metals only adsorbed with
extreme difﬁculty on metal oxide surfaces (e.g., O2, H2, CO,
etc.). The full potential of XPS was not fully tapped at that
moment and EPR spectroscopy is only able to provide
information about paramagnetic species that only represent
a very small fraction, 1/100, of the total catalytic sites.
Furthermore, the small signals detected with EPR may not
even be kinetically relevant in many cases or associated with
the presence of impurities. It should also be noted that the
escape depth of conventional XPS is typically 3–5 nm,
which means that many layers of the mixed metal oxide
material are simultaneously being sampled by this spectro-
scopic technique and the surface component of the signal
becomes diluted by the signal from the underlying layers.
Thus, catalysis scientists were not equipped at that point in
time to fundamentally address the molecular nature of the
catalytic active sites, especially surface sites that do not
possess long range order, present in mixed metal oxide
catalysts and the inﬂuence of different environments on their
electronic and molecular structures.
2.2. 1970s–1990s
This situation began to rapidly change during the 1970s
and 1980s as several new electronic and molecular structural
characterization techniques became available and were
further advanced (intense monochromatic laser sources and
faster detectors for Raman spectroscopy, high energy
synchrotron X-ray sources for X-ray absorption spectroscopy
(XAS), stronger magnetic ﬁelds for solid-state nuclear
magnetic resonance (NMR)) and commercial instruments
to measure UV–vis diffuse reﬂectance spectroscopy (DRS)
spectra. In contrast to XRD that requires long range order for
signal detection, these spectroscopic techniques do not
require long range order for signal detection and provide
local electronic
and
molecular
structural information.
Although these characterization techniques are bulk techni-
ques that sample the entire sample volume rather than the
surface, they are able to also yield surface information when
the catalytic active component is highly dispersed (molecular
sieves and supported metal oxides) in the catalyst sample. For
example, the active metal oxide component is typically 100%
dispersed throughout the sample volume in molecular sieves,
either inframework orasextra-frameworksites[8], andonthe
surface of supported metal oxide catalysts [7]. Recent
advances, to be discussed below, have further extended these
bulk characterization techniques to also provide surface
information about bulk mixed metal oxide catalytic materials.
It cannot be overemphasized, even in the beginning of the
21st century, that heterogeneous catalysis is a surface
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
80
phenomenon between molecules and exposed catalytic active
sites, rather than sites imbedded within bulk structures.
Consequently, fundamental knowledge about the catalytic
events at exposed catalytic active sites, on solid surfaces in
contact with either gas or liquid phases, is critical to
understanding catalytic events. It is, however, also important
to determine if the nature of the surface catalytic active sites is
also being inﬂuenced by the underlying bulk oxide material.
In all cases, fundamental catalytic surface electronic and
molecular structural information is of paramount importance
for understanding and advancing catalysis science.
2.3. Raman spectroscopy
Advances in Raman spectroscopy, intense monochro-
matic laser excitation sources with improved monochro-
mators and detectors, allowed for the ﬁrst time, to be
conﬁrmed a few years later by Chan et al. [15], the detection
of surface metal oxide species for supported MoO3 [16],
WO3 [17], V2O5 [18,19], and Re2O7 [20] catalysts during
the latter part of the 1970s. This was rapidly followed by
reports of in situ Raman studies in the early 1980s where the
environment of metal oxide catalytic materials could be
controlled (gas phase composition, pressure and tempera-
ture) [15,21–24]. The pioneering in situ Raman publication
of Chan et al. in 1984 [15] conclusively demonstrated that
surface metal oxide species are indeed being detected since
they are reversibly changing their structures when exposed
to hydrated and dehydrated conditions.
2.4. X-ray absorption spectroscopy
The theory of XAS was in a state of confusion from 1920
to 1970 [25]. The groundbreaking theoretical paper by
Sayers et al. [26] changed everything showing that the
Fourier transform of the EXAFS with respect to the
photoelectron wave number should peak at distances
corresponding to nearest neighbor coordination shells of
atoms.
The accessibility
of more
intense
X-rays
at
synchrotron radiation sources, three or more orders of
magnitude, was greatly enhanced several years after the
potential of EXAFS was ﬁrst shown [27]. The development
of synchrotron-based X-ray absorption spectroscopic (XAS)
techniques, such as XANES and EXAFS, to characterize
catalytic materials followed these early developments. The
emphasis of the early studies, however, was on supported
metal catalysts and not on metal oxide catalytic materials
[26]. Several XANES and EXAFS publications began to
appear in the catalysis literature for metal oxide catalytic
materials during the mid-1980s and early 1990s (see
discussion on supported metal oxide catalysts). XANES
provides local coordination symmetry and oxidation states
of metal oxides and EXAFS provides more detailed local
structural information (M–O bond lengths and coordination
sphere of the cations). These structural details nicely
complement the Raman and IR vibrational spectroscopic
structural information already available at the time and
allowed for surface metal oxide molecular structural
assignments.
The past few years have again seen signiﬁcant advances
in XAS with the development of soft X-ray absorption
spectroscopy [28–30]. Soft XAS allows tuning of the
electron kinetic energy and the corresponding sampling
depth down to 0.5 nm, which is a dramatic improvement of
the 3–5 nm escape depth of conventional XPS instrumenta-
tion. In fact, the information from different sample depths
can be changed by changing the photon energy. Similar to
XPS, soft XAS provides electronic structural information,
however, pressures of several Torr are only feasible and
allow measurement under very mild reaction conditions.
The unique surface sensitivity, variable sample depth
analysis and in situ capability at mild pressures of soft
XAS
assures
that
this
new
catalyst
characterization
technique will be vigorously developed and make signiﬁcant
contributions in the coming years.
2.5. Solid-state NMR
Solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) was also
being developed during the 1980s, and still continues to be
advanced with new methodologies, as a catalyst structural
characterization technique to provide local structural details
about cations in metal oxide catalytic systems and more
recently the surface reaction intermediates [31]. Solid-state
NMR can only detect nuclei that are diamagnetic and the
presence of paramagnetic cations (Fe+3, Mo+5, Cr+5, Mo+5,
W+5, V+4, Cr+3, etc.) interferes with the measurement of
NMR signals from diamagnetic cations (7Li, 11B, 23Na, 27Al,
29Si, 31P, 51V, 67Zn, 71Ga, 95Mo, 133Cs, as well as 1H, 13C,
15N and 17O). Most of the emphasis of solid-state NMR
during this period was on zeolitic materials because of the
intense activity in this area of oxide catalysis [8]. However,
throughout the 1980s and 1990s the application of solid-
state
NMR
characterization
was
continuously
being
expanded. Solid-state 51V measurements were ﬁrst reported
for bulk mixed metal vanadates by the Russian Boreskov
Institute group [32–34] and ﬁrst reported by Eckert and
Wachs [35,36] for supported vanadium oxide catalysts under
in situ conditions. During the 1990s, solid-state NMR
studies were further expanded to other NMR active nuclei of
supported metal oxide catalysts 31P [37], 95Mo [38], 29Si
[39], molecular sieves [40] and bulk mixed metal oxides
[41,42].
2.6. UV–vis DRS
UV–vis diffuse reﬂectance spectroscopy (DRS) was also
being discovered by catalysis researchers in the 1970s and
several early reviews appear in the literature [43–45]. It was
not until the 1980s and mid-1990s, however, that UV–vis
DRS of metal oxides started to be intensively developed by
catalysis researchers involved with metal oxide catalytic
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
81
materials [46,47]. Che and co-workers demonstrated that the
UV–vis absorption spectrum of MoOx species changes with
the number of Mo species in an oxide cluster [48]. Weber
extended these ﬁndings to quantitatively determine the Mo
oxide cluster band gap, Eg, and demonstrated that it
correlates inversely with the number of bridging Mo–O–Mo
bonds of the Mo cations [49]. In addition, UV–vis can also
monitor the extent of reduction of fully oxidized cations due
to ligand to metal charge transfer (LMCT) and the
appearance of reduced cations arising from d–d transitions
[50]. It was not until the mid-1990s, however, that UV–vis
DRS spectra of metal oxide could be quantitatively analyzed
within a theoretical framework.
2.7. High resolution-transmission electron microscopy
Signiﬁcant advances in high resolution-transmission
electron microscopy (HR-TEM) were also occurring during
this period and provided atomic resolution images of
catalytic
active
sites
under
controlled
environments
(<10 torr) [51,52] Most recently, Hansen and co-workers
were further expanding such studies to a wide range of
catalytic materials and reaction conditions [53–55]. Most of
the HR-TEM studies focused on supported metal catalysts
and supported metal sulﬁde catalysts because of the strong
contrast between the metallic component and the oxide
support [56]. Several attempts were made in the early 1990s
to image the two-dimensional surface metal oxide species
present in supported metal oxide catalysts, but the lack of
long range order in the surface metal oxide monolayers, and
the lack of contrast between the surface metal oxide phase
and the underlying oxide support has still not allowed for the
imaging of the amorphous surface metal oxide monolayers.
Furthermore, it was discovered with HR-TEM in 1995 that
the surface of the bulk V–P–O catalyst possesses an
amorphous skin [57], and more recent HR-TEM studies have
revealed that similar situations also take place on the surface
of other bulk mixed metal oxide catalysts [58].
2.8. Chemical probe molecules and reactions
‘‘Smart’’ chemical probe molecules should be able to (1)
quantitatively determine the number of exposed catalytic
active sites, (2) discriminate among the different type of
surface catalytic active sites (redox, acidic and basic), and
(3) provide quantitative information about the relative
reaction rates on the different type of surface catalytic sites.
Furthermore, it is also important to be able to (4)
discriminate between the surface Lewis and Bronsted sites
and (5) rank the strength or catalytic rates of the different
acidic and basic sites. Although one universal ‘‘smart’’
chemical probe molecule does not exist, the desired
information can usually be obtained by the use of at least
two chemical probe molecules. For example, methanol
oxidation over oxide surfaces primarily forms H2CO over
the surface redox sites, dimethyl ether (DME, CH3OCH3)
over surface acidic sites and primarily COx and some H2CO
over surface basic sites. Furthermore, methyl formate (MF,
CH3OOCH) forms on adjacent surface redox–basic sites and
dimethoxy methane (DMM, (CH3O)2CH2) on adjacent
surface redox–acidic sites. Additional surface chemical
details can be obtained by basic chemical probe molecules
that discriminate between surface Lewis and Bronsted acid
sites as well as their corresponding surface basic sites. The
CH3OH chemical probe molecule, however, appears to be
emerging as the ‘‘smart’’ chemical probe molecule for metal
oxide surfaces since it can readily provide information about
items 1–3 [59].
2.9. Summary
The tremendous advances in spectroscopic characteriza-
tion instrumentation and data analysis over the past three
decades have allowed catalysis researchers to monitor many
more fundamental catalytic details that have led to new
concepts, as well as to question old concepts, for catalysis of
mixed metal oxides. The discussion below will emphasize
the surface electronic and structural aspects of different
mixed metal oxide catalytic systems. The one component
metal oxide phases, supported metal oxides, and molecular
sieves and bulk mixed metal oxide systems will only be
discussed because of the author’s active involvement in these
catalysis research areas during this dynamic period in
catalysis science development of mixed metal oxide
catalytic materials. Consequently, many of the selected
examples will come from the author’s own research
experience with mixed metal oxide catalysts over the past
25 years (1979–2004).
3. One component metal oxide phases
It is important to initially discuss one component metal
oxide phases before addressing the more complex mixed
metal oxide catalytic materials. One component metal
oxides can crystallize with different morphologies (iso-
tropic,
anisotropic
or
remain
amorphous)
and
local
coordination. All one component metal oxide phases will
crystallize at elevated temperatures (provide XRD detect-
able crystalline phases), but many phases may remain
amorphous at modest calcination temperatures (e,g., SiO2,
Al2O3, Nb2O5, Ta2O5, etc.). The majority of one component
metal oxides crystallize with an isotropic morphology
(without preferential orientation) [60], and surface terminate
with M–OH, M–O–M, M=O or M-[ ] functionalities where
M-[ ] represents an oxygen vacancy [61–64].
Bulk crystalline structures are usually determined with
XRD and the surface functionalities are typically deter-
mined with vibrational spectroscopic methods such as IR
and more recently also by Raman. For example, amorphous
isotropic SiO2 terminates with isolated Si–OH, hydroxyl
pairs of (Si–OH)2 and Si(–OH)2, and bridging Si–O–Si
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
82
bonds [65] and isotropic Nb2O5, crystalline as well as
amorphous, terminates with Nb–OH, Nb–O–Nb and Nb=O
bonds [61]. In the case of crystalline isotropic Cr2O3, both
surface Cr+3 and Cr+6 oxidation states are present and the
surface terminates with Cr–OH, Cr–O–Cr and Cr=O
functionalities [63]. Surfaces that terminate with M=O
bonds typically possess M+7, M+6 and M+5 cations, and
surfaces with M+4, M+3, M+2 and M+1 cations typically do
not possess enough electrons to form terminal M=O bonds
and terminate with M–OH or M–O–M bonds. Furthermore,
most low valent oxides typically only exhibit surface Lewis
acidity and most high valent oxides typically contain both
surface Lewis and Bronsted acidity [66,67].
It is important to emphasize that these various surface
functionalities usually possess different surface reactivity
properties. For example, when metal oxides and molecules
are adsorbed on the SiO2 surface the anchoring sites are the
more reactive isolated surface Si–OH groups and not the less
reactive bridging Si–O–Si and adjacent hydrogen bonded
surface hydroxls [68]. In the case of Al2O3, multiple surface
hydroxyls are present as well as oxygen vacancies or defects
[69,70]. The different surface hydroxyls vary by the number
of Al sites and Al coordination, which determine their
surface chemistry characteristics [65]. The isolated Al–OH
sites are the most basic and the bridging Al–OH–Al sites are
the most acidic. As for SiO2, the isolated Al–OH sites are the
most reactive when metal oxides or molecules are adsorbed
on the alumina surface. The Al-[ ] surface defects possess
Lewis acidity character [71]. Furthermore, the Cr+6 terminal
Cr=O bonds on the surface of crystalline Cr2O3 undergo
redox processes in reactive environments because of the
ability of such sites to readily become reduced to lower
oxidation states and lose their O atoms to reducing reactants.
Some metal oxides crystallize with an anisotropic
morphology such as platelets [60,64]. For example, both
crystalline MoO3 and V2O5 crystallize with the platelet
morphology where the terminal M=O and bridging M–O–M
functionalities are present on the basal planes, and the
terminal M–OH predominates on the edge plains [64,72].
Sleight and co-workers nicely demonstrated that the MoO3
basal plane containing the terminal Mo=O and bridging Mo–
O–Mo bonds do not chemisorb CH3OH and that the surface
Mo–OH sites on the edges react with CH3OH to form
surface Mo–OCH3 and H2O [73]. The same platelet
morphology and relative activity pattern was also found
for crystalline V2O5 and ZnO when exposed to CH3OH [74–
76].
For platelet morphology, consequently, the number of
catalytic active sites of such materials tends to only be a
small fraction of the total surface metal oxide sites. These
ﬁndings reﬂect the structure sensitivity of metal oxide active
sites to different crystalline planes, and the speciﬁc surface
functionalities present on the different planes. For example,
the surface M=O functionality present in crystalline MoO3
and V2O5 is catalytically relatively inactive relative to the
surface M–OH functionality in these catalysts. Theoretical
calculations on crystalline V2O5 have also conﬁrmed that the
surface M=O functionality is too stable relative to other
surface functionalities for catalytic reactions [77].
As can be concluded from the above discussion, catalytic
metal oxides are much more complex than the correspond-
ing metal-based catalysts because they can terminate with
multiple surface functionalities and exhibit several cation
oxidation states.
4. Supported metal oxide systems
4.1. Surface metal oxide phases
Supported metal oxide catalysts are created when an
active metal oxide component is deposited on an oxide
support [7]. The active acidic metal oxides (e.g., ReOx,
CrOx, MoOx, WOx, VOx, NbOx, TaOx, etc.) usually anchor to
the oxide substrate by preferentially titrating the basic
surface hydroxls of oxide supports [78]. The active basic
metal oxides (FeOx, NiOx, CoOx, etc.), however, usually
anchor to the oxide substrate by preferentially titrating the
surface Lewis acid sites, such as surface M-[ ] vacancies, of
the oxide support [79]. For many supported metal oxide
systems, the active component is usually present as a
100% dispersed surface metal oxide phase (typically when
Al2O3, TiO2, ZrO2, Nb2O5 and Ta2O5 are used as the oxide
supports) below monolayer surface coverage. Less than
100% dispersion is usually obtained for metal oxides on the
SiO2 support because of the lower reactivity and more acidic
character of its surface hydroxyls [80]. In addition, some
active basic metal oxide components do not interact strongly
with the different oxide functionalities present on oxide
supports and, consequently, do not disperse very well to
form nanocrystalline phases (e.g., MnOx, CeOx, etc.) [81].
The electronic and molecular structures of the surface metal
oxide species that are present on oxide supports have
received enormous attention over the past three decades
because of (1) their industrial signiﬁcance as catalysts for
numerous applications [82] and (2) their ability to serve as
model mixed metal oxide catalytic system due to the
essentially completely dispersed state.
4.2. Molecular structures of dehydrated surface vanadium
oxide species
The supported vanadium oxide catalytic systems have
probably received the most attention in the catalysis
literature during this period because of intense interest in
their multiple industrial applications and will be the focus of
this section for brevity. The surface nature of the supported
VOx catalysts was clearly revealed by the application of
several ground breaking in situ spectroscopic investigations
during the 1980s: Raman [15], XANES/EXAFS [83], solid-
state 51V NMR [35,36] and IR [84]. Both the solid-state 51V
NMR and the XANES/EXAFS measurements revealed VO4
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
83
coordination for the dehydrated surface VOx species. The
coincidence of the Raman and IR bands from the terminal
V=O bond could only occur if only one terminal bond was
present for the dehydrated surface VOx species, and was
further conﬁrmed by 18O2–16O2 studies as well as IR studies
in the overtone region [72]. The presence of bridging V–O–
V bonds was readily detected with Raman [85] and the
polymeric nature of the dehydrated surface species were
conﬁrmed by complementary UV–vis measurements [86].
The dehydrated surface VOx species are usually exclusively
present as isolated surface O=V(O–S)3 species at low
surface coverage and the extent of polymerization increases
with surface VOx coverage that can reach as much as 100%
polymerized species at monolayer surface coverage [87].
Above monolayer surface coverage, crystalline V2O5
nanoparticles form on top of the surface vanadia monolayer
because all the exposed and reactive support surface
hydroxyls have been consumed in anchoring the two-
dimensional surface vanadia phase [78]. The local coordina-
tion present in bulk V2O5 is made of a polymeric VO5 unit
with mono–oxo terminal V=O bond [60]. The platelet
morphology and inactive basal planes of crystalline V2O5
result in very few new catalytic active sites and actually tend
to decrease the number of exposed surface VOx by covering
them. Thus, the spectroscopic studies revealed that there are
three distinct dehydrated surface vanadia sites on supported
vanadia catalysts as a function of surface coverage: isolated
VO4, polymeric VO4 and V2O5 nanocrystals (see Fig. 1).
4.3. Surface chemistry of supported vanadium oxide
species
The surface chemistry of the different supported vanadia
species were chemically probed by CH3OH oxidation to
H2CO [88,89]. The catalytic results were quantiﬁed per
surface vanadia species as turnover frequencies (TOF = -
number of H2CO molecules formed/surface V/s) because
the surface vanadia species were 100% dispersed (con-
ﬁrmed with Raman). The methanol oxidation catalytic
results showed that the surface vanadia species exclusively
behaved as redox sites since they yielded redox products.
Furthermore, the catalytic contribution of the nanocrystal-
line V2O5 phase was minimal primarily because of the low
number of active surface edge sites present and that the
overall catalytic performance was dominated by the surface
vanadia phase. The TOF values for the isolated and
polymeric surface VO4 species, however, were essentially
identical since the TOF value did not change with surface
vanadia coverage and showed that only one surface VO4
unit was required for the reaction. In subsequent years, this
was also shown to be the case for oxidation reactions
requiring only one O atom or two electrons: SO2 oxidation
to SO3 [90], C2H6 oxidation to C2H4 [91] and C3H8
oxidation to C3H6 [90,92,93] as shown in Fig. 2 below.
Oxidation reactions requiring more than one O atom or two
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
84
Fig. 1. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts consist of (a) isolated, (b)
polymeric surface mono-oxo VO4 species and (c) crystalline V2O5 nano-
particles.
Fig. 2. (a) Isolated and polymeric surface mono-oxo VO4 species present at
low and high surface coverage, respectively, exhibit the same speciﬁc
catalytic activity, TOF, for two electron reactions that involve one O atom.
(b) Oxidation reactions requiring more than one O atom or two electrons, or
multiple surface VO4 sites, exhibit increasing speciﬁc catalytic activity,
TOF, with surface coverage.
electrons, however, require multiple surface VO4 sites and
the TOF increases with increasing surface VO4 coverage as
shown below: NH3 SCR of NO to N2 [94], n-butane
oxidation to maleic anhydride [95], and C3H6 oxidation to
acrolein [96].
4.4. Oxidation states of surface vanadium oxide species
In situ Raman and UV–vis measurements during these
oxidation reactions revealed that the surface VO4 species
are almost entirely present in the oxidized V+5 state during
these differing reaction conditions and, consequently, only
trace amounts of reduced surface V+4/V+3 species are
present [92,97]. The relative catalytic contributions of the
different surface vanadia oxidation states for methanol
oxidation to formaldehyde were examined by Vohs and co-
workers [98–101]. By controlling the extent of reduction of
the surface phase, the following trend was observed:
V+5 > V+4  V+3. Thus, the catalytic active site is the fully
oxidized surface VO4 sites and not the reduced surface
vanadia sites. This conclusion is contrary to what has
repeatedly been proposed in the catalysis literature by many
researchers over the years.
4.5. Reaction kinetics and mechanism
Most of the oxidation reactions over the supported
vanadia species occur via a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism,
where the participating oxygen comes from the catalyst, the
surface vanadia species in this case, and not from gas phase
molecular O2 (Langmuir–Hinshelwood mechanism) [102].
In other words, the only kinetic function of gas phase
molecular O2 is to rapidly oxidize the reduced surface V+4
and V+3 sites back to V+5. This was demonstrated for
CH3OH oxidation to H2CO, requiring only one oxygen
atom to proceed, by performing CH3OH-temperature
programmed surface reaction (TPSR) spectroscopy experi-
ments where identical results were obtained both in the
presence and absence of gas phase O2 [103]. This was also
shown to occur for oxidation of CH3SH to H2CO and SO2
that requires three surface oxygen atoms to proceed [103].
When
the
experiments
were
extended
to
the
more
demanding oxidation reaction of thiophene oxidation to
maleic anhydride and SO2, requiring six oxygen atoms, the
maleic anhydride was not formed in the absence of gas
phase molecular O2 [104]. This reveals that thiophene
oxidation to maleic anhydride requires more oxygen than
can be provided by the surface vanadia monolayer and that
additional gas phase O2 is also required to complete this
demanding oxidation reaction. Thus, thiophene oxidation to
maleic anhydride and SO2 proceeds by a combined Mars–
van Krevelen and Langmuir–Hinshelwood mechanism
because of the high oxygen requirement for this reaction
to proceed over the surface vanadia monolayer. Although
Mars and van Krevelen originally only applied their
kinetics to oxidation reactions over bulk metal oxide
catalysts supplying bulk lattice oxygen, the current studies
with supported vanadium oxide catalysts demonstrate that a
surface Mars–van Krevelen mechanism can also operates
for supported redox metal oxide catalysts supplying oxygen
from surface metal oxide species.
4.6. Catalytic active oxygen species
The catalytically active surface VO4 species possess three
different functionalities (terminal V=O, bridging V–O–V
and bridging V–O-support bonds) and their relative catalytic
contributions for oxidation reactions were examined for
methanol oxidation [89]. The bridging V–O–V bonds are not
kinetically critical since the catalytic TOF value does not
increase with increasing surface coverage. In addition, in
situ UV–vis DRS measurements reveal that there is a slight
preference for reduction of the polymeric surface VO4
species over the isolated surface VO4 species during steady-
state oxidation reaction conditions [92]. Although the
terminal V=O bond of the dehydrated surface vanadia
species slightly shifted to higher wavenumbers with
increasing surface coverage due to lateral interactions and
polymerization, the corresponding catalytic TOF values
were essentially identical. Thus, the invariance of the TOF
value with surface vanadia coverage shows that the bridging
V–O–V bonds and the terminal V=O bonds are not involved
in the kinetically relevant rate-determing-step, and impli-
cates the bridging V–O-support bond as the catalytic active
site. This observation is a general one since similar trends
are also observed for numerous oxidation reactions over
supported vanadium oxide catalysts: C2H6 oxidation to
C2H4 [91], C3H8 oxidation to C3H6 [92,93], SO2 oxidation to
SO3 [90]. This conclusion is contrary to what has been
repeatedly proposed in the catalysis literature for the past
three decades and is consistent with the inactivity of the
crystalline V2O5 basal plane for methanol oxidation that
contains both the terminal V=O and bridging V–O–V bonds
[74,75].
The contribution of the bridging V–O-support bond to
methanol oxidation was examined by varying the speciﬁc
oxide support for the surface vanadia phase [89]. Essentially,
the same isolated and polymeric surface VO4 species were
present on the different oxide supports, with the exception of
SiO2 that only contained isolated surface VO4 species due to
the low surface vanadia coverage achievable on this surface
[105]. It was found that the steady-state catalytic TOF value
increased by a factor of 103 as the oxide support was
varied:
SiO2  Al2O3  Nb2O5/Ta2O5 < TiO2 < ZrO2 <
CeO2. This trend was found to inversely correlate with
the electronegativity of the different support cations: higher
TOF values corresponded to lower support cation electro-
negativity. This dramatic trend suggests that a lower
electronegativity of the support cation results in a higher
electron density on the bridging V–O-support bond, which
enhances the speciﬁc rate of the redox cycle of this catalytic
active site (Fig. 3) [106].
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
85
4.7. Inﬂuence of the oxide support structure
It is of great fundamental and applied interest to
determine if the speciﬁc oxide support phase affects the
molecular structure and catalytic performance of surface
vanadia species. To investigate this important
issue,
supported vanadia catalysts were synthesized on different
TiO2 phases: rutile, anatase, brookite and B [107]. The TiO2
supports were laboratory synthesized and their surfaces
were analyzed with XPS to conﬁrm that their surfaces were
free of any signiﬁcant impurities. Both Raman and solid-
state 51V NMR characterization studies revealed that the
same dehydrated surface VO4 species are present on the
different titania support structures, which were synthesized
by an identical method (incipient wetness impregnation of a
V-triisopropoxide/isopropanol solution in an N2 environ-
ment, dried in an N2 environment at RT overnight, dried in
an N2 environment at 100 8C overnight, calcined in N2 at
350 8C and subsequently calcined in air at 450 8C for 2 h).
The catalytic properties were chemically probed by the
redox methanol oxidation reaction and the TOF values for
the
different
TiO2
supported
vanadia
catalysts
were
essentially invariant and not dependent on the speciﬁc
titania structure.
The above ﬁndings are in contrast to many claims in the
catalysis literature over the past 30 years that speciﬁc oxide
support structures impart enhanced catalytic properties to
the catalytic active surface vanadia sites. The reason for this
confusion is that commercial oxide supports are synthesized
by different processes, which might introduce different
surface oxide additives. For example, TiO2(anatase) is
produced by a low temperature sulfate process and its
surface is subsequently covered with signiﬁcant amounts of
surface KOx and POx species to retard its photocatalysis
activity when applied as a pigment [108]. TiO2(rutile) is
produced by a high temperature process involving the
combustion of TiCl4 and 1% AlCl3 is added to accelerate
the anatase to rutile transformation kinetics. The solubility
of AlOx in the TiO2(rutile) lattice, however, is only 1/2%
and the residual AlOx segregates to the surface of
TiO2(rutile) particle. Thus, pigment grade commercial
TiO2(anatase)
and
TiO2(rutile) possess very different
compositions and surface properties. This is the origin for
the many contradictory claims in the catalysis literature over
the years with regard to the unique characteristics of a
speciﬁc oxide support phase.
4.8. Inﬂuence of the oxide support dimension
The effect of the oxide support size upon the molecular
structure of the surface VO4 species and its catalytic
performance was examined for the supported V2O5/
TiO2(anatase) system [109]. The standard TiO2(anatase)
support material possessed 30 nm particles, 55 m2/g, and
the small TiO2(anatase) nanoparticles were synthesized in
an inert silica matrix to retard the growth of the titania phase
during calcination. HR-TEM analysis showed that the
dimension of the resulting TiO2(anatase) nanoparticles
varied between 2 and 8 nm as a function of the titania
content
for
the
TiO2/SiO2
materials.
The
electronic
structure, the band gap (Eg), of the different sized
TiO2(anatase) particles were determined with UV–vis
DRS measurements that showed that the TiO2(anatase)
band gap was slightly enhanced for the smallest TiO2(a-
natase) nanoparticles [110]. These different sized TiO2(a-
natase) supports were subsequently impregnated with a
vanadia precursor to synthesize the supported V2O5/
TiO2(anatase) catalysts [109]. The inert nature of the
SiO2 support assured that all the vanadia was coordinated to
the more active TiO2(anatase) surfaces. This was conﬁrmed
by in situ Raman measurements of the ﬁnal calcined
supported V2O5/TiO2(anatase) catalysts that revealed that
the vanadia component was 100% dispersed, no crystalline
V2O5 present, and that the surface VO4 species were indeed
exclusively coordinated to the TiO2(anatase) nanoparticles
in the TiO2/SiO2 catalyst system. The Raman band for the
surface vanadia on TiO2 occurs 1031 cm1 and that for
surface vanadia on SiO2 is found at 1041 cm1, and typical
resolution is 1–2 cm1. The relatively constant Raman
band at 1031 cm1 revealed that the surface VO4 species
possessed the same molecular structure on the different
TiO2(anatase) particles and was independent of particle size.
For the 1% V2O5/TiO2/SiO2 catalyst samples, the surface
VO4 species are essentially present as isolated species. The
catalytic TOF values of the isolated surface VO4 species on
the different sized TiO2(anatase) particles were found to
slightly decrease with decreasing TiO2(anatase) particle
size. There may have also been a minor contribution to the
TOF values for the larger TiO2 particles from some heat
transfer limitations since the amount of inert SiO2 deceased
in the samples as the TiO2 content and particle size was
increased. Nevertheless, these fundamental experiments
with molecularly engineered model supported metal oxide
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
86
Fig. 3. The catalytic activity per surface vanadia site varies inversely with
the support cation electronegativity.
catalysts demonstrate that the catalytic activity of surface
redox sites are not enhanced as the oxide support dimension
is reduced to the nanoscale size. These signiﬁcant ﬁndings
demonstrate, for the ﬁrst time, that catalytic redox reactions
are not enhanced at the nanoscale relative to their larger
conventional counterparts. The reason for this ﬁnding is that
as the TiO2 particle size becomes very small, 1–3 nm, the
titania band gap slightly increases [70], which decreases
electron delocalization on the titania support and to the
catalytically active surface VO4 sites that require electrons
for the redox process.
4.9. Molecularly engineered model supported metal oxide
catalysts
The above catalytic trend was further examined by
molecularly engineering model well-deﬁned bilayered
catalysts on a catalytic relatively inert SiO2 support
[109,111,112]. The ﬁrst layer of the model bilayered
catalysts was synthesized by grafting two-dimensional
surface oxide phases of TiOx, ZrOx or AlOx onto the silica
support. The second layer of surface VOx was then grafted
onto
the
ﬁrst
oxide
layers.
Raman
characterization
conﬁrmed that crystalline phases of TiO2, ZrO2 or V2O5
were not present in any of the catalysts and that all the
components were present as two-dimensional amorphous
phases. Solid-state 27Al NMR conﬁrmed that the surface
AlOx species possessed AlO4 coordination as in zeolites
[113]. XANES conﬁrmed that the surface TiOx monolayer
consisted
of
polymeric
TiO5
coordinated
units
that
transformed to TiO6 coordinated units when the surface
VOx
was
grafted
onto
the
silica
supported
titania
monolayer. The grafting of the surface VOx species onto
the surface titania monolayer is reﬂected in the appearance
of new Raman bands associated with bridging V–O–Ti
bonds at 650 (vs) and 250 (Greek letter delta) cm1 and
the change in the surface titania coordination upon grafting
of the surface VOx species onto the surface titania
monolayer [109]. Corresponding Raman, UV–vis DRS
and XANES measurements showed that the surface vanadia
species were present as isolated O=V(–O–S)3 species
where
S
represents
the
underlying
oxides
(Fig.
4)
[109,111,112].
The chemical reactivity of these bilayered supported
vanadia catalysts was probed with CH3OH oxidation and
the TOF values were found to increase by a factor of 20 in
replacing some of the bridging V–O–Si bonds with
bridging V–O–Zr, V–O–Ti or V–O–Al bonds. These
fundamental results with the model well-deﬁned bilayered
catalysts clearly conﬁrm the inﬂuence of the support
cation electronegativity on the reactivity of bridging V–O–
S bond.
4.10. Operando spectroscopy
Additional fundamental insights into this interesting
phenomenon were obtained from operando IR-reactivity
studies during methanol oxidation [114]. Operando spectro-
scopy was recently coined by Miguel A. Banares to describe
simultaneous spectroscopic and online activity/selectivity
measurements [115]. The advantage provided by operando
spectroscopy studies is that molecular events occurring at
the catalytic active sites can be directly related to the
resultant catalytic activity/selectivity behavior for a given
reaction. In addition, operando spectroscopy studies also
allow for the direct determination of kinetic and thermo-
dynamic parameters that are difﬁcult to extract from
conventional steady-state catalytic studies. For example,
methanol oxidation to formaldehyde proceeds via two
critical kinetic steps [116]—dissociative chemisorption of
CH3OH, which breaks the O–H bond upon adsorption, and
decomposition of the resulting surface CH3O–V intermedi-
ate to H2CO, which breaks a C–H bond of the surface
methoxy intermediate, as shown:
CH3OH þ VOS $ CH3OV þ HOSKads
(1)
CH3OV ! H2CO þ HVkrds
(2)
The operando IR-reactivity studies allowed for the
independent quantitative determination of the adsorption
equilibrium constant, Kads, and the kinetic rate constant for
the rate-determining-step, krds, for the surface VO4 species
on different oxide supports [114]. It was found that the
thermodynamic equilibrium adsorption constant, Kads, was
relatively invariant as the oxide support electronegativity
was changed. The kinetic rate constant, krds, however, varied
signiﬁcantly as the oxide support electronegativity was
changed. Thus, it appears that the dramatic variation in the
TOF for methanol oxidation over different supported
vanadia catalysts is primarily related to changes in the
kinetic krds rate constant and not changes in the thermo-
dynamic Kads equilibrium adsorption constant.
4.11. Catalytic promoters
Secondary metal oxides are many times added to
supported metal oxide catalysts to further enhance the
performance, activity or selectivity, of the catalytic active
sites. For example, supported V2O5/TiO2 SCR catalysts for
NOx reduction with NH3 to innocuous N2 and H2O are
typically promoted with WO3 [94,117,118]. Raman and IR
studies showed that both the vanadia and tungsten oxide
components are present as surface VOx and WOx species on
the TiO2 support below monolayer surface coverage [119].
Methanol oxidation over the unpromoted and tungsten oxide
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
87
Fig. 4. Schematic of bilayered V2O5/SOx/SiO2 catalysts where S=Zr, Ti or
Al.
promoted V2O5/TiO2 catalysts revealed that the redox TOF
for the surface vanadia species is not affected by the
presence of the acidic surface WOx species (as shown in
Fig. 5). The NO and NH3 SCR reaction, however, is
signiﬁcantly enhanced in the presence of the acidic surface
WOx species as shown. The different response of the
methanol oxidation redox reaction and the SCR reaction is
related to the different surface chemical requirements of
each reaction. CH3OH oxidation to H2CO requires only one
surface redox sites while two sites are required for the
adsorption of NH3 and NO in the bimolecular SCR reaction:
a surface acid site to adsorb the basic ammonia and to reduce
an adjacent redox site to generate the vacancy required for
the adsorption of NO since NO will not chemisorb on a fully
oxidized redox site. Consequently, the presence of an acidic
surface WOx site does not affect the unimolecular CH3OH
oxidation redox reaction and does promote the bimolecular
NO and NH3 SCR reaction. Additional studies with
molecularly designed model catalysts revealed that surface
Bronsted acid sites are more effective promoters for the SCR
reaction than surface Lewis acid sites, which also promote
the SCR reaction [94,117,120]. The unimolecular SO2
oxidation to SO3 was also found to behave similarly to the
methanol redox oxidation reaction over the same catalysts
[90]. These fundamental studies revealed that (1) the surface
VO4 species supported on TiO2 possess the same redox
surface chemistry in the presence and absence of secondary
acidic surface metal oxide promoters, and (2) the secondary
surface metal oxide additive only becomes a promoter
depending on the special chemical requirements of a given
catalytic reaction. In addition, these fundamental studies
also demonstrate the enormous potential of molecularly
engineered supported metal oxide catalyst systems to
determine, on a molecular level, the nature of the catalytic
active sites for speciﬁc catalytic reactions over mixed metal
oxide catalysts.
4.12. Catalytic poisons
In industrial environments, metal oxide catalytic materi-
als are exposed to impurities that may adversely impact their
catalytic performance. A typical catalyst poison for certain
oxidation catalytic reactions (e.g., CH3OH oxidation to
H2CO and SCR of NO with NH3) is potassium oxide.
Characterization studies have shown that potassium oxide
directly interacts with the surface vanadia species present in
supported vanadia catalysts by altering the bond lengths of
the surface VO4 species [89,121,122]. The direct interaction
of the basic surface KOx species with the surface VO4
species results in more stable and less reducible oxygen
species [89,122]. Consequently, the TOF values for all redox
reactions
over
mixed
metal
oxide
catalysts
become
signiﬁcantly diminished in the presence of basic potassium
oxide. For some catalytic redox reactions over mixed metal
oxides, however, the basic surface KOx species may also
titrate the strong acid sites that are responsible for
undesirable side reactions. Thus, similar to the addition of
acidic surface metal oxides, basic surface metal oxide
additives can be viewed as either promoters or poisons for a
speciﬁc mixed metal oxide catalytic system depending on
the special chemical requirements of a given catalytic
reaction.
4.13. Spontaneous dispersion of metal oxides
It was demonstrated in the early 1980s that one
crystalline metal oxide component may thermally spread
as
a
surface
MOx
species
over
a
secondary
metal
oxide
substrate
above
the
Tammann
temperature
(TTAM ¼  1
2TMP where TMP is the metal oxide melting
point) of the spreading metal oxide component [123–126].
This was nicely illustrated by Knozinger and co-workers
with in situ Raman experiments following the thermal
spreading of MoOx onto different oxide supports [127]. The
driving force for this surface wetting of metal oxides is the
lower surface free energy of the ﬁnal supported metal oxide
system. The hydroxylated oxide support surface possesses a
much higher surface free energy than the terminal M=O
bonds formed in the surface metal oxide monolayer. The
kinetics of this spreading, however, is controlled by the
mobility or surface diffusion of the spreading metal oxide
component [125]. It was subsequently discovered that metal
oxides can also become dispersed onto oxide supports at
temperatures much lower than even the Tammann tempera-
ture by interaction with reactive molecules that may be
present under reaction conditions, and this has been referred
to as reaction induced dispersion [128]. The metal oxides
that have relatively low Tammann temperatures and,
consequently, disperse at typical catalyst synthesis and
reaction temperatures, 100–600 8C, follow this trend with
increasing TTAM temperature: CrO3 < Re2O7 < V2O5 <
MoO3 < WO3. Thus, it is much easier to disperse CrO3
than WO3 on oxide supports and also accounts for the
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
88
Fig. 5. The addition of acidic surface WOx species to supported V2O5/TiO2
promotes the SCR reaction, but not the redox CH3OH oxidation reaction.
presence of crystalline WO3 nanoparticles typically present
before monolayer surface coverage is reached [129]. Metal
oxides, however, will not disperse on SiO2 because of the
low reactivity of its surface. Although crystalline Cr2O3 has
a very high TTAM, it is also found to readily disperse at
modest temperatures because of the presence of mobile
surface Cr+6 species on this Cr+3 crystalline solid [128].
Metal oxides with TTAM > 600 8C can also disperse at
temperatures greater than their Tammann temperature, but
such elevated temperatures can also adversely affect the
BET of the oxide support.
4.14. Thermal stabilization of oxide supports
Some commercial catalytic applications operate at
extremely elevated temperatures of 700–1000 8C (e.g.,
reforming and partial oxidation reactions to generate
synthesis gas, catalytic combustion, automotive catalytic
converters, etc.) where stabilization of the oxide support
BET surface area is critical to the economic viability of the
catalytic technology. In such circumstances, it is critical to
be able to stabilize the oxide support against thermal
sintering and loss of BET surface area during the lifetime of
the catalyst. It has been discovered over the years that the
addition of certain surface oxide species to oxide supports
can dramatically retard the thermal sintering of oxide
supports. Interestingly, the effective surface oxide additives
tend to be those oxides that possess very high Tammann
temperatures and surface oxide additives that exhibit low
Tammann temperatures tend to accelerate the sintering of
the oxide support [130]. These fundamental ﬁndings suggest
that (1) the sintering process initiates at oxide surfaces, (2)
less mobile surface oxide additives retard the sintering
process by titrating the surface sites responsible for initiating
sintering, and (3) more mobile surface oxide additives
enhance the sintering process by accelerating the condensa-
tion of surface hydroxyls and/or reactions of oxide defects.
Thus, oxide sintering is initiated by surface phenomena and,
consequently, can be moderated by the addition of surface
oxide additives.
4.15. Catalyst synthesis methods
A signiﬁcant portion of mixed metal oxide catalysis
literature has been devoted to different catalyst preparation
methods and, on occasion, the proposed unique surface
metal oxide species that result from speciﬁc synthesis
methods. Such conclusions are, however, at odds with the
discovery of spontaneous dispersion of metal oxides that
reveals that the ﬁnal surface metal oxide species are the
thermodynamically stable state and can even be formed
when beginning from physical mixtures of the crystalline
metal oxide and the oxide support [123,125,126]. To further
investigate this issue, a series of supported MoO3/TiO2 and
V2O5/TiO2 catalysts were prepared via all the different
methods found in the literature as well as from many
international laboratories [107]. The molecular structures of
all the supported metal oxide catalysts were analyzed with
Raman spectroscopy and found to be independent of the
preparation method and even the different support types.
These same ﬁndings were also made with supported surface
MoOx species on SiO2 that were made by different synthesis
methods with SiO2 materials [131]. Differences in the
surface MoOx structure were only observed when impurities
were present in the starting oxide support material [132].
Thus, the molecular structures of surface metal oxide species
on oxide supports are independent of the synthesis methods,
which is counter to what has been proposed in the literature
for too many years.
Although the ﬁnal surface metal oxide structures on SiO2
are also independent of the particular catalyst synthesis
method, aqueous versus non-aqueous and precursor salt, the
partitioning between the surface MOx species and their
corresponding crystalline MOx nanoparticles is signiﬁcantly
affected by the speciﬁc preparation methods [80,86,110–
112,133,134]. This difference is related to the number and
reactivity of the surface hydroxyls on the SiO2 support as
well as the low pH at point of zero charge of the SiO2 support
in aqueous environments (pH 2–3). In aqueous preparation
conditions above the pH at PZC, the SiO2 support is
negatively charged and repulses the negatively charged
metal oxide anions. In aqueous synthesis conditions below
the pH at PZC, the SiO2 support is positively charged and
readily reacts with the metal oxide anions. The very low pH
requirements to disperse surface metal oxides on SiO2 is
responsible for the different partitioning between surface
MOx species and crystalline MOx nanoparticles on SiO2
supports typically observed in the catalysis literature.
4.16. Summary
The fundamental spectroscopic studies over the past three
decades with supported metal oxide catalysts have allowed
for the detection and determination of the molecular
structures of surface metal oxide catalytic active sites as
well as the inﬂuence of different environments on their
structures. Corresponding catalytic investigations have
begun to establish molecular structure-activity/selectivity
relationships for many different catalytic reactions over
supported mixed metal oxides. These signiﬁcant advances
have been accelerated by the ability to molecular engineer
model well-deﬁned supported metal oxide catalytic materi-
als that have allowed systematic variation of the various
functionalities in supported metal oxide catalytic materials.
5. Molecular sieves
As various transition metal oxide-containing molecular
sieve materials began to be synthesized in the late 1980s and
1990s, it became of interest to compare their molecular
structures and catalytic properties with their corresponding
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
89
supported transition metal oxides on amorphous SiO2
catalysts. Transition metal oxide silicate molecular sieves
typically possess low levels of isolated transition metal
oxide in silicate structures [8]. Almost the same isolated
structures are found to also be present for the supported
transition metal oxides on amorphous SiO2 catalysts
[40,135,136]. Furthermore, when chemically probed for
CH3OH oxidation to H2CO, the crystalline and amorphous
analogs yield essentially the same TOF and selectivity
values. The results for supported 1% V2O5/SiO2 and V-
silicalite are shown in Table 1:
The methanol oxidation TOF values between both types
of catalysts are essentially indistinguishable within experi-
mental error as are the H2CO and COx selectivity values.
These ﬁndings further suggest that the local bridging V–O–
Si bond controls the catalytic activity and selectivity of the
amorphous and crystalline V2O5–SiO2 systems, and not the
long range order of the silica matrix. This is analogous to the
supported V2O5/TiO2 catalytic system with different bulk
titania phases discussed above. In addition, the model
supported surface metal oxides on amorphous silica
catalysts allow quantitative prediction of the catalytic
surface chemistry for transition metal oxides in siliceous
molecular sieves (silicalites, MCM-41, MCM-48, SBA, etc.)
for such gas phase reactions.
5.1. Summary
The isolated transition metal oxides present in siliceous
crystalline molecular sieves and on the surface of amorphous
SiO2 possess similar molecular structures and catalytic
surface chemistry for vapor phase reactions. Consequently,
it is now possible to predict the vapor phase catalytic
activity, at least for oxidation reactions, for crystalline
transition metal oxide silicate materials even prior to the
successful synthesis of such catalytic materials.
6. Bulk mixed metal oxides
Bulk mixed metal oxide catalytic materials consist of
large crystalline phases possessing low
surface
area
(typically 1–10 m2 g1). The nature of the catalytic active
sites present on the surfaces of bulk mixed metal oxide
catalysts employed for selective oxidation reactions has
eluded catalyst researchers over the years [6,137]. This
situation is a consequence of the bulk spectroscopic
techniques (XRD, Raman, IR, HR-TEM, solid-state NMR
and XAS) usually used to characterize the bulk crystalline
structures and the low dispersion state of mixed metal oxide
catalytic materials. The bulk nature of these characterization
techniques generally allows the signals from the bulk lattice
to dominate the resulting spectra because of the signiﬁcantly
higher number of atoms in the bulk lattice than on the
surface. In a few cases of mixed metal oxide catalytic
materials, however, surface information has also recently
been reported in the catalysis literature.
Guliants et al. obtained HR-TEM images of the layered
vanadyl pyrophosphate, (VO2)2P2O7, catalyst and observed
that the layered structure terminates with an amorphous
layer rather than the crystalline lattice [57]. Consistent with
this early conclusion, are the recent soft EXAFS studies by
Schlogel et al. that the surface oxidation states and surface
composition are different than that of the bulk lattice and are
a strong function of environmental conditions [29,30]. In
another recent investigation, Schlogl et al. also reported HR-
TEM images of bulk mixed Mo–V–Te–Nb–O oxides
showing the presence of crystalline nanoparticles at the
surface of this mixed metal oxide catalyst [58]. In situ
Raman measurements of bulk mixed V–Nb–O and Mo–Nb–
O oxides were able to detect the surface MOx species present
in such mixed metal oxide catalytic materials [93].
The in situ Raman spectra for the bulk mixed V–Nb–O
oxide formed by coprecipitation is shown in Fig. 6 as a
function of vanadium oxide content. In the absence of
vanadia, the Raman spectrum is dominated by a Raman band
at 700 cm1 originating from the bulk Nb–O vibration of
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
90
Table 1
Comparison of catalytic performance of crystalline V-silicalite and amor-
phous 1% V2O5/SiO2 during methanol oxidation at 380 8C
Catalyst
TOF (103 s1)
T = 380 8C
Selectivity (%)
HCHO
HCOOCH3
COx
1% V2O5/SiO2
43
84.6
2.5
12.9
V-silicalite
53
87.0
0.0
13.0
Fig. 6. Raman spectra of dehydrated coprecipitated bulk mixed V–Nb–O
oxides as a function of V2O5 content: (a) band slightly above 1000 cm1
arises from surface VOx species, (b) band slightly below 1000 cm1
originates from bulk VOx in the mixed V–Nb–O oxide bulk lattice, (c)
bands at 1000 and 700 cm1 characteristic of crystalline V2O5 nanopar-
ticles, and (d) bands 700 cm1 come from bulk Nb–O vibrations.
the Nb2O5 [61]. As the vanadia content is increased, this
Raman band shifts towards 740 cm1 because of the
distortion of the bulk lattice by the incorporation of vanadia
into the bulk lattice and several new vanadia bands appear in
the 1000 cm1 region. The initial vanadia Raman band
below 1000 cm1 is associated with a bulk vanadia species
since it does not change its band position upon hydration and
dehydration. The vanadia band above 1000 cm1, however,
does change its position upon hydration and dehydration
indicating that it is associated with a surface species. The
Raman band position of the dehydrated surface VOx species
for the mixed V–Nb–O oxide is similar to that previously
found for the surface VO4 species present for dehydrated
supported vanadium oxide catalysts. This suggests similar
surface VO4 structures for catalytic sites in both supported
vanadia catalysts and mixed metal oxide catalytic materials.
At the highest vanadia content, crystalline V2O5 bands are
also present in the Raman spectrum, labeled with an asterisk,
indicating that all the bulk and surface sites capable of
interacting with vanadia are saturated. Essentially similar
results were found for the mixed Mo–Nb–O oxide system.
This series of Raman characterization studies reveals that (1)
secondary cations tend to be initially incorporated into the
bulk lattice of the host oxide, (2) when the bulk lattice sites
are saturated, the secondary cations become concentrated at
the surface of the mixed metal oxide, and (3) crystalline
V2O5 nanoparticles form when all the surface sites are
saturated. The success of Raman spectroscopy in detecting
the surface VOx species is a consequence of the absence of
strong Raman bands from the bulk lattice of the V–Nb–O
and Mo–Nb–O oxide phases. Corresponding propane ODH
catalytic studies clearly demonstrated that the surface VO4
species, and not the bulk vanadia or crystalline V2O5
components are the catalytic active sites for the mixed V–
Nb–O oxide catalyst system (similarly for the mixed Mo–
Nb–O catalyst system).
The presence of the same elements in the bulk crystalline
lattice and on the surface and in the bulk lattice does not
allow many surface analytical techniques to discriminate
between the bulk and surface cations of mixed metal oxide
catalytic materials because of the 3–5 nm sampling depth
of typical electron spectroscopic techniques (e.g., XPS,
AES,
etc.).
Low
energy
ion
scattering
spectroscopy
(LEISS), however, employs noble gas ions, such as He+,
that only scatter from the outer surface and can provide
elemental information about the outermost surface layer.
This has been employed by Gruenert et al. to characterize the
surfaces of a series of bulk mixed metal vanadates [138]. It
was surprisingly discovered that all the examined bulk
mixed metal vanadates possess an amorphous surface VOx
monolayer on the crystalline lattice substrate. This conclu-
sion was reached because the LEISS signals for the
secondary metal oxide components could not be detected.
The
surfaces of
these mixed metal
vanadates were
chemically probed with CH3OH–TPSR and methanol
oxidation steady-state studies. The CH3OH–TPSR spectrum
for bulk AlVO4 did not exhibit the formation of DME from
acidic surface Al sites and only exhibited the H2CO product
from
surface
redox
sites
of
surface
vanadia
[139].
Furthermore, the H2CO Tp temperature coincided with that
observed for formaldehyde formation from supported V2O5/
Al2O3 catalysts indicating that the surface VOx layer present
on the bulk AlVO4 phase is also inﬂuenced by the underlying
Al cations. These conclusions are consistent with the steady-
state methanol oxidation studies over the mixed metal
vanadate catalysts that demonstrated the surface chemistry
of only vanadia sites [75].
The above recent ﬁndings about the surface nature of bulk
mixed metal oxide catalytic materials are very exciting and
creating a paradigm shift in the fundamental understanding
of how such mixed metal oxides function as selective
oxidation catalysts. For the past 30 years, research on bulk
mixed metal oxide catalytic materials focused on the
crystalline phases and their relationships to their character-
istics as selective oxidation reactions [6,137]. The recent
ﬁndings about the surface nature of mixed metal oxide
catalysts suggest that the most important aspect of such
catalytic materials was completely overlooked: the catalytic
active sites present on the outermost surface layer. Only
oxygen anions can be transported between the bulk lattice
and the outermost surface layer, and the inﬂuence of the
crystalline structure and phase on this phenomenon is not
fully understood at present. Nevertheless, whether the
oxygen participating comes from the bulk lattice or gas
phase, it is reacting with the reactant molecule at the surface
catalytic sites. Thus, much more research will be taking
place in coming years on the surface nature of bulk mixed
metal oxide catalytic materials and their surface chemistry
characteristics.
6.1. Summary
Recent characterization studies have revealed that bulk
mixed metal oxide catalytic materials contain surface metal
oxide phases that can possess electronic and molecular
structures that are different than in the bulk lattice. This
new ﬁnding has major ramiﬁcations for the models of how
bulk mixed metal oxides function as selective oxidation
catalysts.
7. Conclusions
The catalysis science of mixed metal oxide catalytic
materials has undergone a signiﬁcant evolution, or paradigm
shift, over the past three decades due to development of
advanced characterization techniques that are allowing more
fundamental insights to be monitored. Initially, only
crystalline metal oxide phases were determined by XRD
characterization and all the catalytic models were based on
this bulk structural information. This situation began to
change 30 years ago as more powerful characterization
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
91
techniques became available that could provide information
about amorphous metal oxide phases, as well as crystalline
nanophases, under different environmental conditions. The
ﬁrst major breakthrough was the discovery and subsequent
conﬁrmation that amorphous surface species exist for
supported metal oxide catalysts, which opened up an
entirely new area of catalysis research. More recent studies
demonstrated that the same metal oxide catalytic active sites
are present for crystalline siliceous molecular sieves and
their corresponding amorphous SiO2-supported metal oxide
analogs. Furthermore, the same catalytic properties are
exhibited by both the crystalline molecular sieves and the
amorphous SiO2-based catalysts revealing the importance of
local environment over long range order in mixed metal
oxides. Most recently, the discovery of the presence of
amorphous surface species on the surface of bulk mixed
metal oxide materials is having a signiﬁcant impact on how
catalysis researchers think about such catalytic materials.
Thus, the presence of amorphous surface species and phases
in mixed metal oxide catalytic materials and their electronic/
molecular structures–catalytic activity/selectivity relation-
ships are now at the forefront of the catalysis science of
mixed metal oxide materials. This new research paradigm
will have signiﬁcant impact on the catalysis models of mixed
metal oxides in the coming years. In summary, the more
complex catalysis science of mixed metal oxide catalysts is
ﬁnally catching up to the catalysis science of metal catalysts.
Acknowledgments
This article is dedicated to my numerous collaborators
and graduate students at Lehigh University who have
contributed to the advances in the catalysis science of mixed
metal oxide catalytic materials (their names are listed in the
joint publications in the reference section). Without their
collective contributions, all the current insights about mixed
metal oxide catalytic materials would not be available. The
ﬁnancial support of NSF-CTS-0213377 and DOE-Basic
Energy Sciences (DE-FG02-93ER14350) for research on
mixed metal oxide catalysis over the years is gratefully
acknowledged. The Ministerio de Educacion y Ciencia
visiting scientist/sabbatical grant SAB-2003-0212 is much
appreciated and the Instituto de Catalisis and Petroleoqui-
mica, CSIC, is also acknowledged for its hospitality during
the writing of this article.
References
[1] M. Boudart, G. Dje
´ga-Mariadassou, Kinetics of Heterogeneous
Catalytic Reactions,
Princeton University Press, Lawrenceville,
New Jersey, 1984.
[2] G.A. Somorjai, Chemistry in Two-Dimensions: Surfaces, Cornell
University Press, Ithaca, New York, 1981.
[3] G.A. Somorjai, Introduction to Surface Chemistry and Catalysis,
Wiley, New York, 1994.
[4] J. Schwank, Bulk metals and alloys, in: I.E. Wachs (Ed.), Character-
ization of Catalytic Materials, Butterworth-Heinemann, Boston,
Massachusetts, 1992, pp. 1–16.
[5] G. Metzner, Supported metal catalysts, in: I.E. Wachs (Ed.), Char-
acterization of Catalytic Materials, Butterworth-Heinemann, Boston,
Massachusetts, 1992, pp. 17–45.
[6] J.F. Brazdil, Bulk metal oxides, in: I.E. Wachs (Ed.), Characterization
of Catalytic Materials, Butterworth-Heinemann, Boston, Massachu-
setts, 1992, pp. 47–68.
[7] I.E. Wachs, K. Segawa, Supported metal oxides, in: I.E. Wachs (Ed.),
Characterization of Catalytic Materials, Butterworth-Heinemann,
Boston, Massachusetts, 1992, pp. 69–88.
[8] M.E. Davis, J.B. Higgins, Zeolites and molecular sieves, in: I.E.
Wachs (Ed.), Characterization of Catalytic Materials, Butterworth-
Heinemann, Boston, Massachusetts, 1992, pp. 129–148.
[9] T. Yamase, M.T. Pope, D.J. Lockwood (Eds.), Polyoxometalate
Chemistry for Nano-Composite Design, Kluwer Academic/Plenum
Publishers, 2002.
[10] L.E. Briand, G.T. Baronetti, H.J. Thomas, Appl. Catal. A: General
256 (2003) 37.
[11] J.E. Mapes, R.P. Eischens, J. Phys. Chem. 58 (1954) 1059.
[12] J.H. Lunsford, Catal. Rev. 8 (1973) 265.
[13] T.A. Carlson (Ed.), X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy, Dowden,
Hutchinson & Ross, Inc., Stroudsburg, 1978.
[14] C.D. Wagner, W.M. Riggs, L.E. Davis, J.F. Moulder, G.E. Muilen-
berg, Handbook of X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy: A Reference
Book of Standard Spectra for Identiﬁcation and Interpretation of XPS
Data, Perkin-Elmer Corporation, 1979.
[15] S.S. Chan, I.E. Wachs, L.L. Murrell, L. Wang, W.K. Hall, J. Phys.
Chem. 88 (1984) 5831.
[16] F.R. Brown, L.E. Makovsky, K.H. Rhee, Appl. Spectrosc. 31 (1977)
563;
F.R. Brown, L.E. Makovsky, K.H. Rhee, J. Catal. 50 (1977) 162;
F.R. Brown, L.E. Makovsky, K.H. Rhee, J. Catal. 50 (1977) 385.
[17] R. Thomas, J.A. Moulijn, F.P.J.M. Kerkhof, Recueil des Travaux
Chimiques des Pays-Bas 96 (1977) 134.
[18] F. Roozeboom, M.C. Mittelmeijer-Hazeleger, J.A. Moulijn, J.
Medema, V.H.J. De Beer, P.J. Gellings, J. Phys. Chem. 84 (1980)
2783.
[19] F. Roozeboom, J. Medema, P.J. Gellings, Zeitschrift fuer Physika-
lische Chemie 111 (1978) 215.
[20] F.P.J.M. Kerkhof, J.A. Moulijn, R. Thomas, J. Catal. 56 (1979) 279.
[21] C.P. Cheng, J.D. Ludowise, G.L. Schrader, Appl. Spectrosc. 34
(1980) 146.
[22] L. Wang, W.K. Hall, J. Catal. 82 (1983) 177.
[23] J.M. Stencel, L.E. Makovsky, T.A. Sarkus, J. De Vries, R. Thomas,
J.A. Moulijn, J. Catal. 90 (1984) 314.
[24] J.M. Stencel, L.E. Makovsky, J.R. Diehl, T.A. Sarkus, J. Raman
Spectrosc. 15 (1984) 282.
[25] E.A. Stern, Historical developments of EXAFS, in: R.K. Teo, D.C.
Joy (Eds.), EXAFS Spectroscopy: Techniques and Applications,
Plenum Press, New York, 1981, pp. 1–4.
[26] D.E. Sayers, E.A. Stern, F.W. Lytle, Phys. Rev. Lett. 27 (1971) 1204.
[27] F.W. Lytle, D.E. Sayers, E.A. Stern, Phys. Rev. B11 (1975) 4825.
[28] A. Knop-Gericke, M. Haveker, T. Schedel, R. Schlogl, Top. Catal. 15
(2001) 27.
[29] H. Bluhm, D.F. Ogletree, C.H. Fadley, Z. Haussain, M. Salmeron,
Phys. Condes. Matter 14 (2002) 227.
[30] A. Knop-Gericke, F.M.F. de Groot, J.A. van Bokhoven, T. Ressler,
Soft X-ray absorption methods, in: B.M. Weckhuysen (Ed.), In Situ
Spectrospcoy of Catalysts, American Scientiﬁc Publishers, Califor-
nia, 2004, pp. 145–160.
[31] M. Hunger, J. Weitkamp, Nuclear magnetic resonance, in: B.M.
Weckhuysen (Ed.), In Situ Spectroscopy of Catalysts, American
Scientiﬁc Publishers, California, 2004.
[32] D.M. Anufriev, K.G. Ione, O.B. Lapina, V.M. Mastikhin, Doklady
Akademii Nauk SSSR 243 (4) (1978) 945.
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
92
[33] V.M. Mastikhin, O.B. Lapina, V.F. Lyakhova, Reaction Kinet. Catal.
Lett. 14 (1980) 323.
[34] V.M. Mastikhin, O.B. Lapina, V.F. Lyakhova, Reaction Kinet. Catal.
Lett. 14 (1980) 317.
[35] H. Eckert, I.E. Wachs, In microstructure and properties of catalysts,
Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 111 (1988) 459.
[36] H. Eckert, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. 93 (1989) 6796.
[37] E.C. Decanio, J.C. Edwards, T.R. Scalzo, D.A. Storm, J.W. Bruno, J.
Catal. 132 (1991) 498.
[38] J.C. Edwards, R.D. Adams, P.D. Ellis, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 112 (1990)
8349.
[39] M. Niwa, N. Katada, Y. Murakami, J. Catal. 134 (1992) 340.
[40] C.B. Wang, G. Deo, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 178 (1998) 640.
[41] H. Eckert, in: A.T. Bell, A. Pines (Eds.), NMR Techniques in
Catalysis, Marcel Dekker, New York, 1994.
[42] M.E.Lashier,G.L. Schrader, B.C. Gerstein,Appl.Catal. 73 (1991)83.
[43] K. Klier, J. Opt. Soc. 62 (1972) 882.
[44] R. Kellerman, Diffuse reﬂectance and photoacoustic spectroscopie,
in: W.N. Delgass, G.L. Haller, R. Kellerman, J.H. Lunsford (Eds.),
Spectroscopy in Heterogeneous Catalysis, Academic Press, New
York, 1979, p. 86.
[45] K. Klier, in: A.T. Bell, M.L. Hair (Eds.), Vibrational Spectroscopies
for Adsorbed Species, 137, ACS Symp. Ser, 1980, p. 141.
[46] F. Vergand, D. Fargues, D. Oliver, L. Bonneviot, M. Che, J. Phys.
Chem. 87 (1983) 2373.
[47] R.A. Schoonheydt, in: F. Delannay (Ed.), Characterization of
Catalysts, Marcel Dekker, New York, 1984, p. 125.
[48] M. Fournier, C. Louis, M. Che, P. Chaquin, D. Masure, J. Catal. 119
(1989) 400.
[49] R.S. Weber, J. Catal. 151 (1995) 470.
[50] B.M. Weckhuysen, R.A. Schoonheydt, J.-M. Jehng, I.E. Wachs, S.J.
Cho, R. Ryoo, S. Kijlstra, E. Poels, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 91
(1995) 3245.
[51] B.J. Tatarchuk, J.J. Chludzinski, R.D. Sherwood, J.A. Dumesic,
R.T.K. Baker, J. Catal. 70 (1981) 433.
[52] P.L. Gai, Top. Catal. 21 (2002) 161.
[53] P.L. Hansen, J.B. Wagner, S. Helveg, J.R. Rostrup-Nielsen, B.S.
Clausen, H. Topsoe, Science 295 (2002) 2053.
[54] T.W. Hansen, J.B. Wagner, B. Jakob, P.L. Hansen, S. Dahl, H.
Topsoe, C.J.H. Jacobsen, Science 294 (2001) 1508.
[55] S. Helveg, J.V. Lauritsen, E. Laegsgaard, I. Stensgaard, J.K.
Norskov, B.S. Clausen, H. Topsoe, F. Besenbacher, Phys. Rev. Lett.
84 (2000) 951.
[56] S. Bernal, R.T. Baker, A. Burrows, J.J. Calvino, C.J. Kiely, C. Lopez-
Cartes, J.A. Perez-Omil, J.M. Rodriguez-Izquierdo, Surf. Interf.
Anal. 29 (2000) 411.
[57] V.V. Guliants, J.B. Benziger, S. Sundaresan, N. Yao, I.E. Wachs,
Catal. Lett. 32 (1995) 379.
[58] R. Schlogl, D. Teschner, A. Knop-Gericke, M. Haevecker, E. Klei-
menov, D. Su, The function of VxOy species in selective oxidation:
An in-situ high pressure XPS studies (abstracts of papers), in: 228th
ACS National Meeting, Philadelphia, PA, United States, August 22–
26, 2004, COLL-194.
[59] J.M. Tatibouet, Appl. Catal. A: 148 (1997) 213.
[60] A.F. Wells, Structural Inorganic Chemistry, Oxford University Press,
New York, 1984.
[61] J.-M. Jehng, I.E. Wachs, Chem. Mat. 3 (1991) 100.
[62] G. Busca, G. Ramis, V. Lorenzelli, J. Mol. Catal. 50 (1989) 231.
[63] A. Davydov, in: N.T. Sheppard (Ed.), Molecular Spectroscopy of
Oxide Catalyst Surfaces, Wiley, Hoboken, 2003.
[64] J. Haber, Crystallography of catalyst types, in: M. Boudart,
J.R.
Anderson (Eds.), Catalysis, 2, Springer, Berlin, 1984, p. 13.
[65] H.-P. Boehnm, H. Knozinger, Nature and estimation of functional
groups on solid surfaces, in: M. Boudart,
J.R. Anderson (Eds.),
Catalysis, 4, Springer, Berlin, 1984, p. 39.
[66] K. Tanabe, Solid Acids and Base: Their Catalytic Properties,
Kodansha, Tokyo, 1970.
[67] V.M. Mastikhin, A.V. Nosov, V.V. Terskikh, K.I. Zamaraev, I.E.
Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. 98 (1994) 13621.
[68] C. Setzer, G. van Essche, N. Pryor, Silica, in: F. Schuth, K.S.W. Sing,
J. Weitkamp (Eds.), Handbook of Porous Solids, Wiley-VCH, Berlin,
2004, p. 1543.
[69] P. Euzen, P. Raybaud, X. Krokidis, H. Toulhoat, J.-L. Le Loarer, J.-P.
Jolivet, C. Froidefond, Alumina, in: F. Schuth, K.S.W. Sing, J.
Weitkamp (Eds.), Handbook of Porous Solids, Wiley-VCH, Berlin,
2004, p. 1591.
[70] M. Fernandez-Garcia, A. Martinez-Arias, J.C. Hanson, J.A. Rodri-
guez, Chem. Rev. 104 (2004) 4063.
[71] J. Datka, A.M. Turek, J.-M. Jehng, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 135 (1992)
186.
[72] G. Busca, J. Mol. Catal. 50 (1989) 241.
[73] W.E. Farneth, F. Ohuchi, R.H. Staley, U. Chowdhry, A.W. Sleight, J.
Phys. Chem. 89 (1985) 2493.
[74] M. Badlani, I.E. Wachs, Catal. Lett. 75 (2001) 137.
[75] L.E. Briand, J.-M. Jehng, L. Cornaglia, A.M. Hirt, I.E. Wachs, Catal.
Today 78 (2003) 257.
[76] I.E. Wachs, Y. Chen, J.-M. Jehng, L.E. Briand, T. Tanaka, Catal.
Today 78 (2003) 13.
[77] J. Haber, M. Witko, R. Tokarz, Appl. Catal. A: General 157 (1997) 3.
[78] A.M. Turek, I.E. Wachs, E. DeCanio, J. Phys. Chem 96 (1992) 5000.
[79] M.A. Vuurman, D.J. Stufkens, A. Oskam, I.E. Wachs, J. Chem. Soc.,
Faraday Trans. 17 (92) (1996) 3259;
M.A. Vuurman, I.E. Wachs, J. Mol. Catal. 77 (1992) 29.
[80] M. de Boer, A.J. van Dillen, D.C. Koningsberger, J. Geus, M.A.
Vuurman, I.E. Wachs, Catal. Lett. 11 (1991) 227.
[81] F. Kapteijn, A.D. van Langeveld, J.A. Moulijn, A. Andreini, M.A.
Vuurman, A.M. Turek, J.-M. Jehng, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 150 (1994)
94.
[82] C.L. Thomas, Catalytic Processes and Proven Catalysts, Academic
Press, New York, 1970.
[83] T. Tanaka, H. Yamashita, R. Tsuchitani, T. Funabiki, S. Yoshida, J.
Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1 (84) (1988) 2987.
[84] C. Cristiani, P. Forzatti, G. Busca, J. Catal. 116 (1989) 588.
[85] I.E. Wachs, F.D. Hardcastle, Proc. Ninth Int. Congr. Catal. 3 (1988)
1449.
[86] X. Gao, S.R. Bare, B.M. Weckhuysen, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. B
102 (1998) 10842.
[87] H. Tian, I.E. Wachs, in press.
[88] G. Deo, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 129 (1991) 307.
[89] G. Deo, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 146 (1994) 323.
[90] J.P. Dunn, H.G. Stenger Jr., I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 181 (1999) 301.
[91] X. Gao, M.A. Banares, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 188 (1999) 325.
[92] X. Gao, J.-M. Jehng, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 209 (2002) 43.
[93] Z. Zhao, X. Gao, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. B 107 (2003) 6333.
[94] I.E. Wachs, G. Deo, B.M. Weckhuysen, A. Andreini, M.A. Vuurman,
M. de Boer, M.D. Amiridis, J. Catal. 161 (1996) 211.
[95] I.E. Wachs, J.-M. Jehng, G. Deo, B.M. Weckhuysen, V.V. Guliants,
J.G. Benziger, S. Sundaresan, J. Catal. 170 (1997) 75.
[96] C. Zhao, I.E. Wachs, Selective oxidation of propylene to oxygenates
over supported vanadium oxide catalysts (abstracts of papers), in:
228th ACS National Meeting, Philadelphia, PA, United States,
August 22–26, 2004, COLL-224.
[97] L.J. Burcham, G. Deo, X. Gao, I.E. Wachs, Top. Catal. 11/12 (2000)
85.
[98] T. Feng, J.M. Vohs, J. Catal. 208 (2002) 301.
[99] T. Feng, J.M. Vohs, J. Catal. 221 (2004) 619.
[100] G.S. Wong, M.R. Concepcion, J.M. Vohs, J. Phys. Chem. B 106
(2002) 6451.
[101] G.S. Wong, D.D. Kragten, J.M. Vohs, J. Phys. Chem. B 105 (2001)
1366.
[102] G. Froment, K.B. Bischoff, Chemical Reactor Analysis and Design,
Wiley, New York, 1979.
[103] S. Choi, I.E. Wachs, Selective oxidesulfurization of C1-organosulfur
compounds over supported metal oxide catalysts (abstracts of
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
93
papers), in: 223rd ACS National Meeting, Orlando, FL, United
States, April 7–11, 2002, 2002, FUEL-059.
[104] S. Choi, I.E. Wachs, in press.
[105] X. Gao, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. B 104 (2000) 1261.
[106] I.E. Wachs, Catalysis 13 (1997) 37.
[107] G. Deo, A.M. Turek, I.E. Wachs, T. Machej, J. Haber, N. Das, H.
Eckert, A.W. Hirt, Appl. Catal. A: General 91 (1992) 27;
T. Machej, J. Haber, A.M. Turek, I.E. Wachs, Appl. Catal. 70 (1991)
115.
[108] I.E. Wachs, B.M. Weckhuysen, Appl. Catal. A: General 157 (1997)
67.
[109] X. Gao, S.R. Bare, J.L.G. Fierro, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. B 103
(1999) 618.
[110] X. Gao, S.R. Bare, J.L.G. Fierro, M.A. Banares, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys.
Chem. B 102 (1998) 5653.
[111] X. Gao, J.L.G. Fierro, I.E. Wachs, Langmuir 15 (1999) 3169.
[112] X. Gao, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 192 (2000) 18.
[113] O.B. Lapina, E. Lee, I.E. Wachs, in press.
[114] L.J. Burcham, M. Badlani, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 203 (2001) 104.
[115] B.M. Weckhuysen, Chem. Commun. 2 (2002) 97.
[116] M. Boudart, AIChE J. 18 (1972) 465.
[117] M.D. Amiridis, I.E. Wachs, G. Deo, J.-M. Jehng, D.S. Kim, J. Catal.
161 (1996) 247.
[118] M.D. Amiridis, R.V. Duevel, I.E. Wachs, Appl. Catal. B: Env. 20
(1999) 111.
[119] M.A. Vuurman, I.E. Wachs, A.M. Hirt, J. Phys. Chem. 95 (1991)
9928.
[120] I.E. Wachs, G. Deo, A. Andreini, M.A. Vuurman, M. de Boer, J.
Catal. 160 (1996) 322.
[121] G. Garcia Cortez, J.L.G. Fierro, M.A. Banares, Catal. Today 78
(2003) 219.
[122] X. Wang, I.E. Wachs, Catal. Today 96 (2004) 211.
[123] Y.C. Xie, Y.Q. Tang, Adv. Catal. 37 (1990) 1.
[124] J. Haber, T. Machej, T. Czeppe, Surf. Sci. 151 (1985) 301.
[125] J. Haber, T. Machej, E.M. Serwicka, I.E. Wachs, Catal. Lett. 32
(1995) 101.
[126] H. Knozinger, E. Taglauer, Catalysis 10 (1993) 1.
[127] J. Leyer, D. Mey, H. Knozinger, J. Catal. 124 (1990) 349.
[128] C.B. Wang, Y. Cai, I.E. Wachs, Langmuir 15 (1999) 1223.
[129] S.S. Chan, I.E. Wachs, L.L. Murrell, N.C. Dispenziere Jr., J. Catal.
92 (1985) 1.
[130] I.E. Wachs, J.-M. Jehng, F.D. Hardcastle, Sol. St. Ion. 32–33 (1989)
904.
[131] M.A. Banares, H. Hu, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 150 (1994) 407.
[132] M.A. Banares, M.D. Jones, N.D. Spencer, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 146
(1994) 204.
[133] C.C. Williams, J.G. Ekerdt, J.-M. Jehng, F.D. Hardcastle, A.M.
Turek, I.E. Wachs, J. Phys. Chem. 95 (1991) 8781.
[134] D.S. Kim, M. Ostromecki, I.E. Wachs, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chemical
106 (1996) 93.
[135] G. Deo, A.M. Turek, I.E. Wachs, D.R.C. Huybrechts, P.A. Jacobs,
Zeolites 13 (5) (1993) 365.
[136] X. Gao, M.S. Wong, J.Y. Ying, I.E. Wachs, J. Catal. 203 (2001) 18.
[137] R.K. Grasselli, J.F. Brazdil (Eds.), ACS Symposium series, vol. 279:
Solid-state chemistry in catalysis. Based on a Symposium Sponsored
by the Division of Petroleum Chemistry, Inc. at the 186th Meeting of
the American Chemical Society, Washington, DC August 28–Sep-
tember 2, 1983, 1985.
[138] W. Gruenert, L. Briand, O.P. Tkachenko, N.N. Tolkatchev, I.E.
Wachs, Surface composition of supported and bulk mixed metal
oxide catalysts: New insight from ion scattering spectroscopic studies
(abstracts of papers), in: 228th ACS National Meeting, Philadelphia,
PA, United States, August 22–26, 2004, COLL-058.
[139] G. Deo, L.E. Briand, I.E. Wachs, in press.
I.E. Wachs / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 79–94
94
