Introduction
In a collective issue in honour of professor Boldyrev,
a contribution concerning the synthesis of solid (‘het-
erogeneous’) catalysts certainly deserves a place. The
present contribution must refer to a chapter of the
Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis published in
1996 dealing with the same subject [1].
In modern chemical and petroleum refining
industries, more than 90% of the new processes rest on
catalytic mechanisms. The vast majority of industrial
catalysts are solids. In comparison, the proportion of
non-solid catalysts (liquids and gases) is very small,
according to all criteria (mass, value, size of industrial
plants, etc.): they are involved in between 5 and 15% of
the catalytic processes. Solid catalysts often contain two
or several solid components, different in composition,
porosity, specific surface area, etc., that must be
carefully controlled to obtain optimal activity, select-
ivity and stability in time during the catalytic reaction. A
typical class of two-phase catalysts is constituted of an
active phase deposited on a support, or carrier,
possessing a low or, alternatively, a crucially useful
catalytic activity of its own, associated with useful
mechanical or other physical properties (strength, ther-
mostability, heat conductivity…). A typical example is
that of a noble metal highly dispersed on alumina or a
silica-alumina mixed oxide, for hydrocracking or
isomerisation in the presence of hydrogen. In such catal-
ysts, the metal possesses the hydrogenation-dehydro-
genating property, and the support carries acidic sites
that permit isomerisation and some selective breaking of
carbon-carbon bonds. Solid catalysts correspond to
many different compositions as well as diverse struc-
tural and textural properties.
For suggesting the importance of the chemistry
of solids and the role of a control of their reactivity, it
will be sufficient to examine the typical case of ox-
ides. Presently, probably more than 98% of the sup-
ports used for catalyst preparation are oxides. Oxides
used with or without support constitute the largest
proportion of the active materials. For the present arti-
cle, it does not seem necessary to make a detailed list
of the properties that a catalyst must possess. Con-
cerning specifically supports, it is sufficient to say
that they have the following roles:
(i) They permit a high dispersion of the supported
phase. In newly prepared reforming catalysts, more
than 50% of the platinum atoms are usually accessible
1388–6150/$20.00
Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest, Hungary
© 2007 Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest
Springer, Dordrecht, The Netherlands
Journal of Thermal Analysis and Calorimetry, Vol. 90 (2007) 1, 49–65
PREPARATION OF HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
Synthesis of highly dispersed solids and their reactivity
B. Delmon*
CATA, Université Catholique de Louvain, Place Croix du Sud 2/17, 1348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium
The preparation of heterogeneous catalysts has been for many years a dynamic field of sub-nanotechnology and remains so nowa-
days. The approach to preparation must be examined in function of the specific demands concerning (i) activity and (ii) selectivity,
that both depend on the arrangement of atoms at a scale smaller than 0.02 nm. Adequate access of reactants to the surface must be
provided. Most catalysts are used in the form of pellets or cylinders obtained by pressing, extrusion or other techniques. This im-
plies a control of texture at dimension scales extending from a fraction of a nanometer to several millimetres (and sometimes more).
A third demand (iii) is resistance to ageing. In particular, stability at relatively high temperatures is necessary.
The strategy adopted in the majority of cases is to start from a material that is homogeneous in composition at the Angström
scale, generally a liquid or a solid of complex composition, frequently amorphous. A general objective is to locate the different
constituting atoms at precise positions. The main difficulty is to transform the starting precursor into a highly porous solid without
segregation of different elements that would produce tiny parts with different properties.
The specific approach to catalyst preparation is based on the general concepts used for controlling the reactivity of solids.
Typical methods of general use will be examined. Chemical bonds of practically any kind can retain the elements constituting the
future catalyst at the position they have in the precursor. The so-called ‘citrate process’ and its variants are of wide application.
More elaborate approaches start from molecules or polymers associating the necessary elements.
Keywords: catalyst preparation, citrate method, diffusion in solids, mixed oxide catalysts, multi-component precursors, preven-
tion of nucleation, reactivity of solids, segregation in solids
*
delmon@cata.ucl.ac.be
to the reactants. The support must therefore possess a
very high surface area.
(ii) The shape of the support, and especially the pres-
ence of tiny pores (of diameter 1–5 nm) often con-
nected to a red of mesopores of 5–20 nm, allow an
even diffusion of reactants and products to and from
the
inside
of
the
catalyst
pellets
(diameter
0.1–10 mm).
(iii) The support must keep its structure and porosity
for months or years at temperatures currently higher
than 250°C, that often reach 750°C in many pro-
cesses. Therefore it must be composed of refractory
materials (Al2O3, Si–Al mixed oxides, barium hexa-
aluminate…).
(iv) The composition of the support must be such that
the desired reaction gets efficiently catalysed.
The teachings of ceramic science are useful for
satisfying demand (iii), but completely different ap-
proaches are necessary for (i) and (ii).
It is clear that these demands also concern cata-
lysts that are used without support. Table 1 mentions
some of them. The catalysts of this category are cru-
cial for the production of synthesis gas (CO conver-
sion step) and energy conversion as well as in the
manufacture of major intermediates in chemistry. An-
other family of oxide materials, but of more complex
composition, structure and texture, play a key role in
the petroleum refining industry (catalytic cracking,
for example with zeolites) and in chemistry (selective
partial oxidation of hydrocarbons).
Catalysis is a very complex process. The cata-
lytic action consists in accelerating a useful reaction
at the expense of other thermodynamically possible
transformations. For saving energy and raw materials,
catalysts must be extremely selective. This requires
that surface composition be very precisely adjusted at
the scale of the elementary catalytic process, that is at
the scale of molecules. This is necessary for the dif-
ferent surface atoms to work in co-operation with
each other (demand (iv) mentioned above). Conse-
quently, one of the major challenges in catalyst prepa-
ration is to synthesise highly dispersed solids (high
surface area per unit mass of material) with a compo-
sition uniform at the atomic scale. This demand is far
from being satisfied for catalysts and supports, nei-
ther in the laboratory nor in fabrication plants.
Nanotechnology certainly goes in the direction of the
goal, but, as will be suggested in this contribution,
other advanced concepts like molecular recognition
will have to be used. Catalysts demand not only
nano-scale but also Angström-scale control.
A typical example is that of a widespread group
of materials, namely mixed oxides containing silicon
and aluminium. These silica-aluminas are catalyti-
cally active. Used as supports for metal sulfides that
possess complementary catalytic properties, they
command
the
transformation
of
more
than
1 Gton/year of various intermediate products in the
very first steps of petroleum refining. Angström-scale
homogeneity is crucial, because the acidic sites pres-
ent of the surface associate Si, Al and O atoms in pre-
cise proportions to create the proper atomic arrange-
ment determining the nature (Brönsted or Lewis) and
strength of the catalytic sites, and hence selectivity.
The fact that the demands for small scale compo-
sition homogeneity are not yet satisfied can be very
easily illustrated in the case of coprecipitated sam-
ples, where pure silica is very frequently observed
and considerable fluctuations of the Si/Al ratio by
factors of 2 to infinity are measured over a distance of
several tens of nanometers for the best, and several
micrometers for most samples [2–4].
This is illustrated in Figs 1 to 4, taken from data
obtained with 17 different samples. These samples
were prepared by either (i) co-precipitation where a
solution containing salts of both elements was mixed
with a base or (ii) by the sol–gel method, in which a
mixture of alkoxides is hydrolysed. The heterogeneity
comes from the different reactivity of the starting
salts or, respectively, alkoxides [4]. The laboratory
samples came from the same laboratory using always
the same procedure (ii) [3]. With respect to the
industrial samples, most of them were probably
obtained by co-precipitation, but perhaps some of
them using sol–gel or modified sol–gel techniques. In
these investigations, the samples were dispersed in
water with an ultrasonic vibrator. A drop of the
resulting suspension was deposited on a thin carbon
film supported on a standard copper grid. After
drying, the samples were observed and analyzed by
transmission
electron
microscopy
(TEM)
on
a
JEOL-JEM
100C
TEMSCAN
equipped
with
a
KEVEX energy dispersive spectrometer for electron-
probe
microanalysis
(EPMA).
The
accelerating
potential used was 100 kV. The first observations
concerned the general aspect of the sample, looking at
the whole grid. Then, different points of each particle
were analyzed (2 or 3); the same procedure was used
for the analysis of a total of 10 to 25 particles for each
sample. The diameter of the static spot was 0.2 m.
The duration for each analysis (accumulation) varied
between 60 and 240 s. The procedure is reported in
detail in [4].
On the whole, the samples prepared according to
the original sol–gel method (from alkoxides) in the
laboratory are more homogeneous, but one sample
(14.8% Al2O3, Fig. 14a of [4], not represented here)
contained particles of pure silica. Except perhaps for
compositions around 25%, the degree of heterogene-
ity was similar for all sol–gel samples. It is under-
50
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
DELMON
standable that industrial silica-aluminas examined in
identical ways can exhibit substantially different de-
grees of homogeneity (Fig. 4).
The necessity to have more than one component
in a catalyst arises from many needs. Those linked to
polyfunctionality, often required for the different
steps in a reaction, were mentioned in the preceding
paragraphs. Other reasons are the need to enhance the
rate of some reaction steps and to inhibit unwanted
side reactions, the wish to increase thermal stability,
and the necessity to take advantage of observed syn-
ergetic effects. From a fundamental point of view, the
presence of several metal elements in a common
structure permits the adjustment of the local elec-
tronic properties, imposes well defined coordinations,
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
51
HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
0
10
20
30
40
50
0
10
20
30
40
50
40 -
20 -
0 -
40 -
20 -
0 -
80
60
-
-
Si/Al mass concentration ratio
Si/Al mass concentration ratio
l
y sample
with global chemical composition
10.8% Al2O3+89.2% SiO2
aborator
industrial sample
with global chemical
composition
10% Al2O3+90% SiO2
Randomly selected point (no.)
Randomly selected point (no.)
(B) Si/Al=6.439
(B) Si/Al=9.216
(extreme value on
point 28 not included)
(A) Si/Al=7.294
(A) Si/Al=7.949
pure sicilia
(point 28)
Fig. 1 Nanoscale fluctuations of the Si/Al mass concentration
ratio for laboratory and industry prepared samples of
alumina content around 10% (Similar data were ob-
tained for Si/Al around 5% or 50–60%). A – Si/Al cal-
culated on the basis of the global silica and alumina
contents. B – the average value calculated from the
Si/Al ratios experimentally measured on all the ana-
lyzed points (except for the extreme values, that coud
not be taken into account for calculation). Please see
the text for the physical meaning of the A value [4]
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
-
-
0 -
10
5
-
15
10
5
-
-
0 -
Si/Al mass concentration ratio
Si/Al mass concentration ratio
l
y sample
with global chemical composition
26.1% Al2O3+73.9% SiO2
aborator
industrial sample
with global chemical
composition
24 to 26% Al2O3+76 to 74% SiO2
Randomly selected point (no.)
Randomly selected point (no.)
(B) Si/Al=2.398
(B) Si/Al=2.641
(A) Si/Al=2.5
(A) Si/Al=2.649
Fig. 2 Nanoscale fluctuations of the Si/Al mass concentration
ratio for samples of alumina content around 25–26%.
Please see the legend of Fig. 1 for remaining details [4]
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
-
-
0 -
1.5 -
1.0
0.5
2.0 -
1.5 -
1.0
0.5
-
-
0 -
Si/Al mass concentration ratio
Si/Al mass concentration ratio
l
y sample
with global chemical composition
62.2% Al2O3+37.8% SiO2
aborator
industrial sample
with global chemical
composition
58 to 62% Al2O3+42 to 38% SiO2
Randomly selected point (no.)
Randomly selected point (no.)
(B) Si/Al=0.388
(B) Si/Al=0.526
(A) Si/Al=0.536
(A) Si/Al=0.588
Fig. 3 Nanoscale fluctuations of the Si/Al mass concentration
ratio for samples of comparable contents of silica and
alumina. Please see the legend of Fig. 1 for remaining
details [4]
limits the extent of oxidation–reduction phenomena,
and may stabilize the whole catalyst by retarding
sintering. Mixed oxide catalysts are used as such, or
as precursors of active catalysts, for a whole range of
important industrial processes, a representative selec-
tion of which was given in Table 1.
Preparation of atomically homogeneous multi-
component catalysts by conventional methods, how-
ever, is often difficult due to three main reasons:
(i) Deposition of active precursors either as a precipi-
tate or onto a support often gives separate moieties,
instead of a single phase of uniform chemical compo-
sition.
(ii) Segregation of the active components can occur
during the thermal treatment of the catalyst precursor.
(iii) The support can selectively interact with one of
the active components at one or the other stage of the
formation of the mixed oxide.
A good example of the latter case is the reaction
of iron with silica in silica-supported iron molybdate,
a fact which made impossible the use of silica as a
support in the case of catalysts used for the oxidation
of methanol to formaldehyde. Some of the methods to
overcome these difficulties in catalyst preparation
will be discussed in this contribution.
Outline of the general approach
In all cases, the objective is to slow down the pro-
cesses able to let species migrate to form unwanted
compounds or to allow them to segregate when homo-
geneous mixing at the atomic level is desired. In prin-
ciple, when atomically homogeneous mixtures are de-
sired, gases or liquids are ideal precursors. Prac-
tically, liquids are more convenient. The reason is that
the ordinary liquid state has no long-range structure,
and hence permits a statistical repartition or distribu-
tion all over the volume of its contents at the molecu-
52
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
DELMON
0
10
20
30
40
50
0
10
20
30
40
50
0 -
-
0 -
20 -
15 -
1
5
0 -
-
0 -
15 -
1
5
Si/Al mass concentration ratio
Si/Al mass concentration ratio
industrial sample
with global chemical
composition
13.3% Al2O3+86.7% SiO2
industrial sample
with global chemical composition
13.3% Al2O3+86.7% SiO2
Randomly selected point (no.)
Randomly selected point (no.)
(B) Si/Al=7.033
(B) Si/Al=4.83
(A) Si/Al=5.757
(A) Si/Al=5.757
Fig. 4 Differences in nanoscale fluctuations of the Si/Al mass
concentration ratio between batches for industrial sam-
ples of identical composition. Please see the legend of
Fig. 1 for remaining details [4]
Table 1 Some important mixed-oxide catalysts used in industry
Catalyst
Active phases
Industrial processes
Copper chromite
CuCr2O4
CO conversion (low temp.), oxidations,
hydrogenation,
hydrogenation-hydrogenolysis
Zinc chromite
ZnCr2O4, ZnO
methanol synthesis (high pressure)
Copper/zinc chromite
CuxZn1–xCr2O4, CuOy
methanol synthesis (low pressure)
Iron molybdate
Fe2(MoO4)3, MoO3
methanol to formaldehyde
Iron oxide/potassium oxide
KFeO2, K2Fe22O34
ethylbenzene to styrene
Bismuth molybdate,
other oxides+promoter oxides
mixed oxides: Mo, Bi, Sb, Sn, Co, etc.
propene to acrolein propene to
acrylonitrile
Zinc ferrite
ZnFe2O4
oxidative dehydrogenation
Vanadia-molybdena
V2O5–MoO3 solid solution
benzene/butene to maleic anhydride
Vanadium phosphate
Mixed (VO)x(PO4)y
butane to maleic anhydride
Chromia -alumina
CrxAl2–xO3
dehydrogenation of light alkanes
Mixed oxides
perovskite type
catalytic combustion
Barium hexaaluminate
BaAl12O19
catalytic combustion (support)
lar scale. However, segregation almost invariably oc-
curs when liquids are reacted to give solids (e.g. by
precipitation, because one element usually precipi-
tates before the other component or components [5]).
The fundamental reason to use of solid-state reactions
is that, unlike in a liquid, the diffusion of atoms or
ions in a solid is very difficult and it is practically
frozen at relatively low temperatures. Figure 5 is a
schematic representation of the situation inspired by
the theory of the transition state. The ‘activation’
necesssary for movements in the liquid state is of the
order of magnitude of Van der Waals forces or hydro-
gen bond strength, that is a few kJ mol–1. Diffusion in
solids necessitates the losening of ionic forces or the
breaking of covalent bonds, the strength of which
amounts to several tens to hundreds of kJ/mole.
A very crude estimation of the relative rates of the
two kinds of processes with the background of the
transition state picture shows that rates of reactions
differ by several orders of magnitude. An additional
reason is that nucleation, by favouring the formation
of new phases, necessitates preliminary diffusion
steps. Whenever a solid of complex composition can-
not be obtained by a direct reaction, an indirect
method can be tried. The situation is similar if the re-
action of a supported catalytic material with the sup-
port must be avoided. In both cases, all steps in the
preparation that could facilitate diffusion should be
avoided. This is discussed in more details in a chapter
of the Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis [1]
In a general way, blocking or hindering diffusion
may be achieved
• by making physical diffusion slower,
• or by ‘pinning’ the various species in their initial
location in a liquid by relatively weak links (e.g.
van der Waals forces, ionic forces…)
• or by blocking all partner at their initial position by
chemical bonds.
Actually, a wide spectrum of methods exist for
those purposes. Consequently a perfect classification
is nearly impossible.
It may be noticed that a few catalysts are ob-
tained from solid precursors by topotactic reactions
(e.g. from solids of hydrotalcite structures). The start-
ing compounds are mainly hydroxides, carbonates, or
oxalates. The key step in preparation is therefore that
of the precursor, rather than that of the catalyst itself.
This is possible if a solid can be obtained of a chemi-
cal nature which differs from that of the desired solid
(e.g. a hydroxide, salts of organic acids, etc.), but
which contains the metallic elements in the propor-
tion required by the catalyst. The key reaction is then
the solid-state transformation of this hydroxide or salt
to the desired oxide. Keeping the material in the solid
state throughout the transformation permits a power-
ful control that prevents all unwanted atomic restruc-
turing in the bulk during catalyst preparation.
Solid-state chemistry, more precisely topochemistry
(‘chimie douce’), offers the additional advantage that
specific structures and even textures (as for the layers
of phyllosilicate in pillared clays) can be preserved
intact throughout these solid-state transformations.
The following discussion also covers this case.
Actually, the potential of processes starting from
solid precursors is broader. Sometimes a single start-
ing phase gives solid products containing two or sev-
eral phases, each of them very highly dispersed and in
intimate contact with each other. This was observed
in catalyst preparation. On the other hand, identifica-
tion of synergetic actions between catalyst compo-
nents progressively convinced catalysis scientists that
the synergy actually corresponded to a co-operation
between distinct phases (initially called ‘remote con-
trol’ [6–8], namely control of the catalytic properties
of one phase by signals, coming from a distinct
phase). This is typically the case of many oxidation,
ammoxidation and related processes. The techniques
based on the decomposition of solid precursors can
provide intimate mixtures of phases in close contact
with each other. This enhances the efficiency of phase
co-operation because the signals need to travel only
on short distances [9]. This occurs spontaneously in
the preparation of the so-called ‘iron molybdate’ (for
the oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde), which is
an intimate mixture of MoO3 and iron molybdate, but
can be controlled for obtaining better catalysts. Anti-
mony oxide is essential in many selective oxidation
reactions. The use of solid precursors very likely pro-
duces highly dispersed Sb2O4 in intimate contact with
the other component.
Now, considering both highly dispersed solids of
uniform composition at the atomic scale and mixtures of
intimately interdispersed phases, it must be noted that
the use of solid precursors offers an important additional
advantage. The transformation of solids usually allows
an efficient control of the texture of the solid products
that other processes do not allow. An adequate selection
of reaction conditions leads to highly dispersed solids
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
53
HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
solid precursor
solid-state
reaction
precipitation
catalist
Harchiv
starting solution
Fig. 5 Schematic representation of the approximate levels of
formal activation energy in diffusion in fluids (liquids)
and solids
possessing a defined porosity. The preparation methods
described in the present section are cases that can be
considered as typical, and have been selected to
highlight (i) possible goals that can be reached and (ii)
procedures used for reaching them.
The approach to catalyst preparation using solid
precursors must take account the specificity of cata-
lysts as product of the reaction compared to other
solid materials. A difficulty rests in the fact that trans-
forming a solid material to another may need a rela-
tively high temperature. The migration of a constitu-
ent inside the structure of a solid involves an activa-
tion energy barrier to be overcome (Fig. 5). The
Tammann temperature (taken approximatively as half
the melting temperature in K) is generally believed to
be that over which the atoms or ions in the bulk are
sufficiently mobile. The temperature for decomposi-
tion of the solid precursor must therefore be lower
than this Tammann temperature. The demands are
still higher for obtaining a material of high surface ar-
eas as catalysts are. The Hüttig temperature (about
one-third the melting temperature) is enough to make
surface species sufficiently mobile to undergo sinter-
ing or lead to particle agglomeration. The conclusion
is that the reactions considered in this article must oc-
cur at moderate or low temperatures, namely below
the Tammann and Hütig values. These will generally
be endothermic decompositions to solids and gases.
General surveys of solid-state reactions involved
in catalyst preparation or production can be seen in
Courty et al. [10–12], Courty and Marcilly [13, 14],
and Delmon and de Keyser [15]. Several aspects of
this subject are also covered and updated in the Pro-
ceedings of the International Symposia on Scientific
Bases for the Preparation of Heterogeneous Catalysts,
held in 1975, 1978, and then every 4 years at
Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium [16–24].
These solid-state reactions are based on concepts
pertaining to the science of the reactivity of solids.
Many of them were developed by Boldyrev, French
scientists (kinetics of the transformation of solids,
topotactic reactions, ‘chimie douce’), many other sci-
entists in the world, and the present author [25–27].
Other fundamental aspects concerning nucleation due
to supersaturation of species present in liquids and the
role of surface energy (Gibbs–Thomson law) that
tends to diminish dispersion and surface area are dis-
cussed in the relevant literature see, for example, [1])
and reviews by Marcilly [13] and Marcilly and
Franck [14].
Preparation methods: general
In conformity with the title of this contribution, the
objective is to describe approaches to catalyst prepa-
rations using solid precursors. This excludes in prin-
ciple coprecipitation and the original sol–gel method,
widely used in ceramic and materials science. Only
specific cases will be examined.
For reasons mentioned at the beginning, the pre-
sentation essentially concerns oxides, by far the most
frequent case. For other catalysts (examples are: car-
bides [28], nitrates [29, 30], oxynitrides [31], phos-
phides [32]), mixed oxides usually serve as precur-
sors and homogeneity is still more crucial. Even bi-
metallic catalysts have been prepared by reduction of
precursors made by techniques presented in this sec-
tion [33].
Several cases need to be distinguished when an
atomically homogeneous multi-element catalyst is
required:
(i) Direct preparation by various types of reactions
(e.g. precipitation). There are very few examples. In
practice, when using precipitation, perfect homogene-
ity is only possible if an oxoanion, e.g. a molybdate or
a vanadate, reacts with a cation to produce the precip-
itate. The stoichiometry is dictated by the chemistry
of this reaction and has little flexibility.
(ii) A two-step process, through preparation of an-
other type of homogeneous solid of exactly the same
composition (e.g. carbonate, hydroxide, oxalate or
other precursors, for making finally an oxide) and, in
a second step, thermally activating a solid-state reac-
tion of this precursor.
(iii) Preparation of a solid approximately homoge-
neous followed by solid-state transformation, hoping
that a higher homogeneity will be achieved during a
second step.
The first category correspond to very specific
cases and do not need special comments. Here, atten-
tion is given to both other categories. The discussion
is organised according to the technique used.
A general comment has to be made here. The
strategy consisting of starting from a homogeneous
solid precursor and transforming it to the desired cata-
lyst is only successful if diffusions in the solid state
potentially leading to segregation are made difficult.
This requires that only precursors decomposing to the
final solid at low temperature, below the Tammann or
Hüttig temperatures, be used. On the other hand, for
reasons that cannot be presented here in full detail, it
is advantageous that the solid precursor decomposes
with production of large quantities of gases. In prac-
tice, hydroxides, carbonates, hydroxocarbonates, ni-
trates, and salts of carboxylic acids (formates, oxa-
lates, acetates, citrates, etc.) satisfy both require-
ments. The main reason is that a coupling between the
solid-state transformation and the formation of pores
is necessary and the formation of pores is obviously
promoted by the evolution of gases. Coupling effects
54
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
DELMON
in catalyst preparation are discussed in several arti-
cles [25, 27, 34].
One can essentially distinguish two steps in the
procedure: the preparation of a homogeneous solid
precursor and the careful decomposition of this pre-
cursor to the oxide. For the first step, it is crucial to
avoid the segregation of the oxide species into sepa-
rate solid phases. This is usually achieved by:
(i) Physical methods such as evaporation to dryness,
drying by vaporization, freeze-drying, and crystalli-
zation. For the reasons explained above, the operation
should be extremely rapid.
(ii) A physico-chemical method like some gelation
methods.
(iii)
Chemical
methods
such
as
precipitation,
coprecipitation, oil-drop, oil-up, and complexation.
Oil-drop and oil-up involve processes pertaining to
categories (ii) and (iii).
This reflects the classification concerning the
methods mentioned at the beginning, that can be used
for slowing down diffusion processes.
However, the considerable development of het-
erogeneous catalysts has led to innumerable varia-
tions around the most frequently used techniques and
combinations
between
techniques:
micro-emul-
sions+oil drop, supercritical precipitation [19, 20],
impregnation of high surface area solids that can be
later
eliminated
by
combustion,
complexation+
spray-drying, etc. [16–21, 34–37]. We shall adopt a
classification based on the techniques, rather than on
fundamental mechanisms of action.
Dry methods
One common method to prepare mixed-oxide cata-
lysts is to grind or ball-mill them together, either dry
or in a wet slurry; this is followed by calcination to
temperatures of 600–1000°C. The operation may be
repeated several times. In the past, catalysts for the
styrene process were generally prepared in this way
from KOH and oxides of Fe and Cr and other (propri-
etary) promoter components. The solid-solid reaction
during calcination can be accelerated by ‘priming’ or
catalyzing by a small amount of the product premixed
with the reactant oxides, presumably for nucleating
the desired phase. Ammonia synthesis catalysts
which are prepared by mixing the components in the
molten state do not pertain to this section, strictly
speaking. A ‘fluid energy mill’, operated with steam
injection at 400–700°C and 5–15 bar steam pressure,
is applied in some cases. Some other techniques, used
only rarely, are dry chemical oxidation of alloys, and
electrolytic deposition. In general, the dry methods
mentioned in this section give solids with a low sur-
face area.
Wet methods
Coprecipitation
The most common method for mixed-oxide catalyst
preparation is crystallization or precipitation or
coprecipitation in solution of a precursor form (hy-
droxide, oxide, insoluble salt) of the catalyst [1].
Other specific steps, for example either addition of an
extra component or its removal by partial extraction,
may sometimes be necessary to adjust the final cata-
lyst composition and ensure homogeneity.
One of the most studied cases was that of
hydroxo-carbonates used for preparing catalysts con-
taining copper and zinc or chromium with additional
elements (e.g. Co or Al). These catalysts are used for
making synthesis gas and methanol. The precursors
are mixed compounds with flexible composition [12]
with
the
following
structures:
hydrotalcite
M
M
6
2+
3
3+ +(OH)16CO3·4H2O (M representing metals
of valence 2 or 3), malachite Cu
Zn
(OH) CO
2–x
2+
x
2+
2
3
and auricalcite Cu
Zn
(OH) (CO
2–x
2+
x
2+
6
3) 2 [12, 38–41].
Precipitation (or simple crystallization) involves
two
main
steps,
nucleation
and
growth
[12, 13, 42–47]. At the nucleation stage, very small
crystals of the solid phase are formed; these have a
high specific surface area and high surface energy,
and hence are unstable. Below a certain critical nuclei
size, the free energy of formation of the solid phase is
less than its surface energy and the new phase is ther-
modynamically unstable. Above this critical size, the
solid particles can grow. According to the conditions,
this growth step is mainly controlled by interface or
diffusion phenomena. The first case generally corre-
sponds to the formation of complicated solid struc-
tures. The second is more common in the precipita-
tion processes used in catalyst preparation. An over-
view
is
given
in
references
given
previously
[5, 12–14]. An excellent detailed treatment of nucle-
ation and growth phenomena can be cited [48]. Only
more general statements or rules of thumb can be
given here.
For nucleation:
(i) the higher the supersaturation, the higher will be
the nucleation rate and, hence, the smaller the nucleus
size;
(ii) any interface may play the role of a heterogeneous
nucleus by lowering the surface free-energy of the
new phase, and thus increase the rate of nucleation;
(iii) in general, higher temperatures lower the nucle-
ation rate by increasing the critical size of the nuclei -
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
55
HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
the upper left boundary of the homogeneous nucle-
ation band reflects this trend.
For growth:
(i) the higher the supersaturation, the higher will be
the growth rate, but it is rapidly limited by diffusion
processes;
(ii) since an increase of temperature enhances the dif-
fusion rates, the higher the temperature, the higher
will be the growth rate of the new phase.
Obtaining a highly dispersed precipitate there-
fore necessitates the folllowing conditions:
(i) A vigorous stirring of the solution while adding the
chemical compound, that triggers precipitation. This
is beneficial in two ways: first, each elementary vol-
ume of solution reaches rapidly the highest degree of
supersaturation; second, it comes into contact several
times with the agitator and the walls of the vessel,
thereby also promoting heterogeneous nucleation by
particles detached from the walls.
(ii) A rapid addition of the precipitating agent ensures
a rapid reaching of the highest degree of super-
saturation in the whole volume of the solution, hence
a maximum nucleation rate is obtained. For the same
reason, the best precipitating agent is the one giving
the precipitate with the lowest solubility product.
(iii) Although the situation may be very different from
case to case, precipitation is often advantageously
made at the lowest practical temperature, as this often
favors nucleation over growth.
(iv)
As
recently
demonstrated
in
the
case
of
Ce1–xZrxO2 solid solutions, crystalline mixed oxide
nanoparticles can also be obtained by hydroxide
coprecipitation followed by redispersion in an aque-
ous medium by sonication, using nitric acid as peptiz-
ing agent [43].
The multi-element product of precipitation may
be an insoluble single compound, for instance BaTiO3
(precipitation of a hydrated oxalate, BaTiO(C2O4)2·
4H2O, and its thermal decomposition) or, cerium zir-
conyl oxalate corresponding to the stoichiometry
Ce2(ZrO)2(C2O4)5
to
serve
as
precursor
for
CeO2–ZrO2 solid solutions [44]. It may also be a sin-
gle-phase solid solution or a single-phase mixed
structure, as in the precipitation by sodium carbonate
of aluminates or hydroxoprecursors of aluminates of
Cu, Fe, Ni, Zn and Mg. Divalent metal oxalates can
also be precipitated in this way [45]. A third
possibility is that metals precipitate more or less si-
multaneously, but in separate phases, e.g. metal hy-
droxides precipitated by NaOH, KOH and (NH3)aq.
Normally, aqueous ammonia is preferable for precipi-
tation, especially when washing off all alkali from the
catalyst is a prerequisite for the preparation of the fi-
nal catalyst. An exception to this is when (NH3)aq can
form ammine complexes as with many transition met-
als (Ni, Co, Cu, Zn). Tables 3 to 7 in [1] presented non
exhaustive lists of mixed salts which had been
claimed to be obtained by coprecipitation.
Spray drying, spray calcination
Spray drying is a versatile method that can produce
mixtures of phases with a high degree of interdis-
persion and a relatively high degree of homogeneity,
although there is, in principle, no atomic level homo-
geneity. Very often, slow evaporation of a homoge-
neous solution of two precursor salts, for example
MgSO4 and Al2(SO4)3, leads to segregations of the
two salts in the solid product. To prevent this, it is ad-
vantageous to eliminate rapidly the solvent, either by
spray drying or hot petroleum drying. Spray drying is
also frequently used for removing water when the ac-
tive phase or the desired precursor has been produced.
In certain cases, the temperature in the equipment can
be raised enough to permit the reaction between the
salts to produce an oxide combining two metallic ele-
ments. This may be called spray-calcination. The re-
spective sulphates were used to make highly dis-
persed MgAl2O4 solid solutions. The success of the
method, in this case, consisted in the very small size
of the crystallites obtained by rapid drying and their
excellent interdispersion, this promoting solid-state
reactions at higher temperatures. This technique is
used industrially to produce powders for the fabrica-
tion of ceramics [46]. Mainly single-metal oxides are
made in this way, but it is claimed that MnFe2O4,
NiFe2O4, NiAl2O4, dopant-stabilized zirconium oxide
and titanates used as catalysts can also be obtained.
Powders of surface area up to 20 m2 g–1 can be pro-
duced. The powder is usually in the form of aggre-
gates of 0.2–0.4 m in the best cases, but often of over
100 m in diameter [46].
By use of this technique, it is possible to prepare
fine spherical catalyst particles in the 10–100 m di-
ameter range, as required for typical fluidized-bed
catalytic processes. This is used for large-scale cata-
lyst manufacture, the feed being generally a dilute
hydrogel or sol that is sprayed from the top of a tower
when hot air is blown in a cocurrent or countercurrent
direction to dry the droplets before they reach the bot-
tom of the tower. The fine droplets are produced or at-
omized by pumping the hydrogel or sol under pres-
sure either through nozzles, or onto wheel discs rotat-
ing at a high speed. The method is also convenient to
embed
crystalline
particles
of
micrometer
or
submicrometer size in an amorphous matrix of
10–100 m diameter. The best known examples are
the techniques to embed multicomponent bismuth
molybdates in a 50% silica matrix for ammoxidation
56
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
DELMON
of propene to acrylonitrile, or to incorporate <1–3 m
zeolite crystallites in an amorphous silica-alumina/
clay matrix for fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) cata-
lysts. The use of spray drying or spray calcination for
making atomically homogeneous mixed oxide slowly
emerges from the development stage. Flame spray py-
rolysis of precursors mixtures was recently shown to
provide Pt/ceria-zirconia materials exhibiting higher
specific surface areas than the conventional catalysts
obtained by precipitation or incipient wetness im-
pregnation [47].
Hot-petroleum drying
Hot-petroleum drying constitutes an alternative to
spray drying. It was developed by Reynen and Bastius
[48], initially for small-scale preparations. However,
the development of what industry improperly calls the
sol–gel method, namely integrated conventional pre-
cipitation and gelling, makes it now a large scale
preparation method. The principle consists in drop-
ping a fluid material containing the active elements in
kerosene. This fluid material may be a gel, a solution
in the course of becoming a gel, a stabilized emulsion
of a salt solution and kerosene, or an aqueous solution
of salts. The temperature of the kerosene bath is main-
tained at about 170°C. The kerosene bath may be vig-
orously agitated if necessary. The water evaporates
and the powder or, according to processes, the small
solid spheres obtained are easily filtered and dried at
around 250°C. The product is a free-flowing powder
consisting of a homogeneous mixture of salts. The
hot-petroleum drying method, contrary to the spray-
drying variant (that we previously called spray calci-
nation) does not permit the development of the
solid-state reactions necessary to form oxides, but the
highly dispersed and intermixed salts can be ther-
mally decomposed without phase segregations. Just
as spray drying, this method is also dependent on the
evaporation of water being faster than the segregation
phenomena. The controlling factors are thus the tem-
perature of the hot kerosene and the rate of water
evaporation from the droplets. The advantages of this
method are the simple setup, the fact that kerosene
can be recycled, and the lower energy consumption
than for spray drying.
Freeze-drying
Freeze-drying corresponds to the same purpose as
both above-mentioned methods, but the strategy is
different. In order to limit segregation, the action now
concerns directly the physical diffusion process, that
is slowed down. This can be achieved either by rapid
cooling (freeze-drying) or by increasing the viscosity
of the solution (by some of the methods described be-
low, addition of hydroxycellulose or gums, for
example). This increase of viscosity also plays a role
in the more elaborate amorphous citrate process de-
scribed later in this contribution.
Undercooling is the driving force in freeze-dry-
ing. An aqueous salt solution is introduced dropwise
into an immiscible liquid (hexane or a petroleum frac-
tion such as kerosene) cooled below –30°C. The indi-
vidual droplets are frozen instantaneously and the
solid particles are decanted or filtered. The frozen liq-
uid often has a glassy structure. It is sublimed in a
vacuum to obtain a homogeneous powder of fairly
uniform
particle
size.
Important
parameters
in
freeze-drying are cooling rate and the final tempera-
ture of the solidified solution. These can be controlled
to some extent, but only on a small scale. Hence the
method is not very well suited to large-scale manufac-
ture of catalysts.
Gel formation and chemical complexation methods
General comments
It is not useful, except for the sake of very fundamen-
tal interpretations, to make a strong distinction be-
tween methods resting on gel formation and those
making use of chemical complexation. The reasons
are (i) that the first ones, when used in isolation, are
not
very
effective,
and
(ii)
that
the
chemical
complexation methods lead to the formation of solids
or solid-like materials (or even real solids), so that
making a clear separation is difficult and sometimes
artificial. In the following, only important approaches
will be mentioned, and the physico-chemical aspects
of these methods will be emphasized.
Quite generally, the methodology for preparing
finely divided heterogeneous catalysts also benefits
from the development of the so-called ‘soft chemistry’
strategies implemented for the synthesis of multi-
component
inorganic
materials.
In
that
context,
‘precursor’ routes based on the thermal decomposition
at rather low temperatures (below 500°C) of suitable
precursors containing organic groups are widely used.
This concerns the synthesis of oxides. Sulfides,
nitrides or carbides can be obtained in a similar way,
either starting with appropriate precursors, or by
adapting the decomposition medium. Because these
routes allow the formation of crystalline or amorphous
solid substances under conditions significantly milder
than those employed in conventional solid state
synthesis (‘ceramic method’), the final materials often
present relatively high surface areas. To select the
appropriate temperature for the decomposition pro-
cess, the thermal degradation scheme of the starting
materials must be taken into account to find a comp-
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
57
HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
romise between the obtention of high surface areas and
the extent of residual carbonaceous contamination.
However, in most cases, when precursors containing
only carbon, oxygen and nitrogen are used, the choice
of
appropriate
conditions
allows
finely
divided
materials with very high surface purity to be obtained.
Two major classes of precursors are encoun-
tered. On the one hand, well-established methods are
based on the use of polymeric precursors of ill-de-
fined stoichiometry at the molecular scale, containing
the desired metallic elements in appropriate amounts,
together with a sacrificial matrix that ensures the effi-
cient mixing at the molecular level. The widely used
‘citrate methods’ belong to this category, although in
some cases (Al [49], Ti [50], V [51], Mn [52],
Co [53], Mo [54], La [55]), well-defined citrate com-
plexes could be recently identified and crystallized.
On the other hand, in some other cases, coordination
compounds with precise stoichiometries can be ob-
tained, and even characterized from the structural
point of view when crystals are produced. The pres-
ence of bridging and/or chelating organic ligands in
these precursors was shown to avoid metal segrega-
tion during oxide formation. Carboxylates and poly-
aminocarboxylates
like
EDTA
(ethylenediamine-
tetraacetate) or its heavier analogs like DTPA
(diethylenetriaminepentaacetate) or TTHA (triethyl-
enetetraminehexaacetate), give rise to a wide variety
of such complexes [56–58]. More particularly, when
different metals are involved in the formulation of the
final oxide, the main advantage of these routes is the
potential use of heterometallic single-source precur-
sors, because they provide a much greater control on
the metal stoichiometry in the final oxide. In particu-
lar, several examples of alkoxysiloxy metal com-
plexes or other siloxane compounds have been de-
scribed as precursors to silica-based multicomponent
oxides containing for instance magnesium, chromium
[59], molybdenum [60, 61], tungsten [62], vanadium
[63], or zirconium [63]. Ideally, when bulk mixed ox-
ides are concerned, precursor complexes containing
the number of metal atoms corresponding to the
stoichiometry of the final oxide are required to opti-
mize this approach, but this often represents an ambi-
tious challenge. Otherwise, intimate mixtures of iden-
tical (or as similar as possible, with respect to the ther-
mal behaviour) homometallic precursors of different
metals to be combined can be used (‘multiple precur-
sors method’).
Depending on the functionality of the poly-
aminocarboxylic acid and the total number of possi-
ble N and O coordination sites, various geometrical
arrangements and coordination numbers can be
achieved to fit the size and geometry requirements of
the cations involved. In some specific cases, slightly
modified ligands constitute promising alternatives.
This is the case, for example, with the elements of
groups IVB (Ti) and VB (V, Nb, Ta), for which well-
defined soluble precursors exist. Peroxo-carboxylates
[64–67] and peroxo-polyaminocarboxylates [68–70]
of these metals are potential precursors, because they
are available as water-soluble molecular precursors.
However, due to the presence of the peroxo groups
potentially triggering very exothermic decomposi-
tion, care has, however, to be exercised when
handling these compounds at a large scale.
Crystalline complex salts
Oxalates [71], tartrates [72] and citrates [73] of vari-
ous metals can form well crystallized complex salts,
e.g. Mg(NH4)4(AlxCr1–x(C2O4)3)2·nH2O, which on
thermal decomposition at moderate temperatures can
yield mixed oxides. Although these complex salts
permit substitution in large concentration ranges, or
even in all proportion in some cases, of elements of
the same ionic volumes, their stoichiometry is still
rather rigid. This imposes a serious limitation on the
wide applicability of the method. This limitation is
conspicuous when comparing the chemical formulas
of crystallized citrates that were mentioned in [1], Ta-
ble 7, p. 111, and [46], with the very flexible compo-
sition of compounds that will be described in the next
section. This difference concerns the nature of the as-
sociated elements and the stoichiometry. Very few
crystallized citrates contain elements of primary cata-
lytic importance, and nearly none of them contains
two elements presently of interest for catalysis. On
the other hand, stoichiometry is determined in a rigid
way by the crystallographic structure. Oxalato-com-
plexes had been the object of detailed studies
[71–73]. They correspond to the formula:
M I
2(NH4)4[MIII(C2O4)3]2 nH2O
where MI and MIII represent a single metal or some-
times a mixture of simple ions of identical valency,
namely I or III, respectively. This flexibility in
stoichiometry, however, is restricted to within, re-
spectively, the group of valency I or that of valency
III. The method was also adapted for complex ions
like the vanadyl cations VO2+.
Geus and co-workers [74, 75] have applied an-
other method based on chemical complexes. This is
the complex cyanide method to prepare both mono-
component (Fe or Co) and multicomponent Fischer–
Tropsch catalysts. A large range of insoluble complex
cyanides are known in which many metals can be
combined,
e.g.
hexacyanoferrate(II)
(also
called
ferrocyanide) and hexacyanoferrate(III) (also called
ferricyanide) with nickel, cobalt, copper, or zinc ions.
Bimetallic precursors associating Cu cyano com-
58
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
DELMON
plexes with ammine or ethylenediamine complexes of
Zn(II) were also described as model precursors to
Cu–Zn oxide catalysts [76]. Soluble complex ions of
molybdenum(IV) ([Mo(CN)8]4–) that can produce in-
soluble complexes with metal cations are also known.
The inconvenience in using the crystalline com-
plex salts is the absence, or strong limitation, of flexi-
bility in composition. This makes difficult or impossi-
ble to obtain catalysts with the needed composition.
In general, the problem is further complicated due to
the possibility of non-homogenization or phase sepa-
ration during the chain of dowstream unit operations
involved in catalyst production.
The amorphous complex method, described next,
provides an escape from most of these difficulties.
Amorphous precursor: ‘citrate’ method: general
The principle of this method consists of preparing a
stable amorphous or glassy precursor that, thanks to
the amorphous structure, tolerates an enormously
wide range of composition. The starting solution is a
mixture of metallic salts and a hydroxyacid such as
citric,
malic,
tartaric,
lactic,
or
glycolic
acid
[10, 77–79]. The name ‘citrate’ attached to the
method is widely used because citric acid is cheap and
stable and the vast majority of preparations use it
rather than other hydroxyacids. The metals are prefer-
ably in the form of nitrates or ammonium salts, which
will not leave any residues on thermal decomposition.
In addition, the use of the nitrate and ammonium ions
promotes surface area and porosity, due to the large
amount of gas that is evolved during the decomposi-
tion. Typical concentrations are 1 g equivalent or-
ganic acid per equivalent of total metal content. The
solution is concentrated by rapid evaporation under
vacuum, for instance in a Rotavapor, until its viscos-
ity exceeds 500 cP at ambient temperature. A very
stable syrup is obtained in this way. It can be dehy-
drated under vacuum at about 80°C to a rigid-foam
(meringue) precursor, which is amorphous to X-rays,
hygroscopic, and exhibits the color of the metallic
ions present. The amorphous precursor appears to be
some sort of a three-dimensional polymer in which
the multifunctional organic acids are linked to two or
more cations by covalent or hydrogen bonds. The
thermal decomposition of the amorphous mass may
proceed more or less continuously or in two distinct
steps at 80–100°C and 250–400°C. Because of the
danger of violent reactions, this decomposition step is
to be carried out very carefully, taking all necessary
precautions. The preparation of oxides containing
metallic ions highly active in oxidation needs very
stringent precautions and is generally not advisable.
In particular, the possible detonation of copper and
silver salts should be borne in mind. In these cases,
the freshly formed metal particles could be powerful
catalysts for some unexpected reactions, e.g. with am-
monia. Also, secondary reactions can occur even at
room temperature resulting in the formation of a small
amount of lethal cyanogen gas.
The mechanisms of reactions occurring during
preparation of mixed oxides by the citrate methods
have been outlined in some detail [80]. In the dehydra-
tion under vacuum, extensive loss of nitrate ions (in the
form of various nitrogen oxides and ammonium ni-
trate) occur together with the loss of water. Although
easier in the presence of citric acid, the decomposition
of nitrate does not involve extensive reaction with the
latter below 100°C. The semi-decomposed precursor
obtained around 140°C is essentially a dehydrated,
amorphous, highly porous mixed citrate. The higher
temperature decomposition stage, mainly between 225
and 400°C, consists of the burning of citric acid by ox-
ygen. This is facilitated because of the presence of ni-
trate ions in the initial precursor. As indicated above,
this stage is catalyzed by the presence of metals whose
oxides are oxidation catalysts. Additional details can
be found in [9] and [80], as well as [81–85]. Some car-
bon remains in the oxides, as in most other preparation
methods. The use of ozone has been shown to diminish
the carbon content.
Mixed oxides obtained by the above method are
very lightmass powders of apparent density most of-
ten below 0.05 g cm–3. They are amorphous to X-rays,
free flowing, and consist of aggregates of particles of
20–100 nm. Upon further heating, these oxides crys-
tallize into various well-defined structures depending
on the nature and composition of the starting materi-
als: solid solutions, spinels, perovskites, garnets [11].
Variants of the citrate method consist of simply
adding citric acid or other hydroxymultifunction ac-
ids to solutions used for preparing catalysts by other
methods (precipitation, impregnation, sol–gel, etc.).
Although not leading to such excellent results as the
original citrate method, the result of such a use of
hydroxyacids permits substantial improvements. A
modified
citrate
method
(commonly
called
the
‘Pechini method’) has been proposed in which a
polyalcohol is added to the initial solution [86]. The
polyalcohol is supposed to promote the reticulation in
the transformation of the starting solution to the rigid
foam. The reticulation or polymer formation is due to
the esterification reaction between citric acid and the
poly-alcohol. This method has been used for the prep-
aration of barium titanates doped by a large variety of
ions, and can be easily applied for preparing catalysts.
The chemical complexation methods and partic-
ularly those using amorphous precursors, have found
important and innovative applications for the prepara-
tion of a wide variety of catalysts and supports and of
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
59
HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
various
perovskite-type
catalysts
and
barium
hexaaluminates, as required for high-temperature
(>1200°C) applications such as catalytic combustion.
It is worthwhile describing some applications. This is
done in the next two subsections.
Example: preparation of CeO2–ZrO2 solid solutions
Ceria-zirconia solid solutions are important in cataly-
sis because of their thermal stability and ability to
store oxygen or, at least, to increase oxygen mobility
in complete oxidation catalysts [87, 88]. They were
investigated in the whole range of composition. In ad-
dition, their high heat capacity constitutes a strong ad-
vantage for the use of new techniques like the one em-
ploying reverse-flow reactors [89]. Extensive studies
had been conducted on the Ce–Zr–O system after
1995 [89–97]. Actually the range of stability for ap-
plication corresponds to phase metastability in the
phase diagram [98]. Hence the advantage is to start
from very homogeneous precursors, in order to avoid
the presence of large regions where composition
would correspond to strong thermodynamical stabil-
ity and correlatively particles of low surface areas due
to rapid growth of nuclei. X-ray diffraction (XRD)
can indicate the presence of two phases, possessing
the tetragonal and the monoclinic structure, respec-
tively. Concerning the samples prepared by the citrate
method, the observation of the XRD lines of both
phases does not show any broadening that could sug-
gest heterogeneity of composition. Different tech-
niques, using in particular the MSI-CERIUS soft-
ware, indicated that both polymorphic phases were
solid solutions, as opposed to mixtures of mono-
metallic oxides [83]. In contrast the samples prepared
by the sol–gel method exhibited asymmetric XRD
lines, and even the presence of stoichiometric
Ce0.5Zr0.5O2 as previously found in other studies (see
references cited in [83]). The results of a detailed
study of these samples (by XPS, EDX, Electron Mi-
croscopy, and the observation of the modifications of
the XRD diagrams as a function of temperature dur-
ing calcination of the precursor), in addition to the
technique already mentioned, are reported in [83].
Example: citrate method for the preparation of
unsupported and supported perovskite catalysts
Many solids possessing the perovskite structure pres-
ent interesting properties for complete destruction of
harmful organic molecules by complete oxidation to
H2O and CO2 [94, 99]. In general, perovskites have
been prepared by calcining a solid mixture of constit-
uent metal oxides or carbonates (the method used in
the ceramic industry), or by evaporating an aqueous
solution of constituent metal nitrates or acetates with
subsequent calcination. The resulting oxides have rel-
atively small surface areas. The guiding principle
here is to attain as thorough a dispersion as possible,
almost to a molecular level, of constituent compo-
nents in the precursors prior to calcination. Once this
is achieved, lower calcination temperatures can con-
vert the precursors to solids of the required perovskite
structure with larger surface areas. Among recent ex-
amples are the preparations of La1–xCexMnO3 (x0.4)
[100] and La1–xCexMn1–yCoyOz (x0.3, y0.7) [101]
homogeneous solid solutions. Nitrate co-precipitation
apparently failed to give homogeneous solid solutions
[102]. A comparison of the specific surface areas ob-
tained with different techniques in the case of the
perovskite LaCoO3 is published elsewhere [97].
Teraoka et al. [98, 99] have applied the amor-
phous citrate process to prepare unsupported (or
‘neat’) and supported perovskites of the type LaMn,
LaCo,
LaMnCu,
LaCoFe,
LaCaCo,
LaCaMn,
LaSrMn, LaSrCo, LaSrCoCu and LaSrCoFe. The use
of the citrate method for preparing atomically homo-
geneous oxides on supports has been a very important
extension of the citrate method over the years. Ni-
trates of constituent metals of the required perovskite
were dissolved in water and mixed with an aqueous
solution of citric acid (molar ratio of citric acid to to-
tal metals approximately 1/1). Water was evaporated
from the mixed solution using a rotary evaporator at
60–70°C until a sol was obtained. The sol was further
dehydrated at the same temperature under vacuum for
5 h. Stabilized alumina of composition La2O3·
19Al2O3 was used as the support for the perovskites.
One of the carriers mentioned in the previous
sub-section (Ce0.8Zr0.2O2) has been used for support-
ing up to 20 mass% LaCoO3 or La0.8Ce0.2CoO3 [100].
The sensitivity of the XRD technique does not allow
so solid conclusions as those obtained for unsup-
ported phases, because the supported phase represents
only a relatively small fraction of the solid investi-
gated. At a loading up to 15 mass%, no difference ap-
pears between impregnation by citrates and by ni-
trates. For a loading of 20 mass%, however, a segre-
gation of cobalt oxide is more important in the case of
impregnation by nitrates in comparison with the use
of citrates. In neither cases are evidences of some re-
action between the supported perovskite and the sup-
port or of other kinds of decomposition of the sup-
ported phase. The activity of the catalysts obtained
from citrates showed a slight advantage over the other
series, but the conclusion of a critical discussion was
that this could not be related directly to the quality of
the supported solid solution.
It is interesting to indicate that Teraoka et al.
also prepared the perovskites mentioned in results
described above using an acetate process, instead of
60
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
DELMON
the citrate process. The acetate process needed a
higher calcination temperature of 850°C and con-
sequently produced samples the surface areas of
which were only 1/3 to 1/7 of those of samples from
the citrate process. The higher-area perovskites from
the citrate process possessed higher catalytic activity
for
methane
oxidation.
For
the
preparation
of
supported
perovskite
catalysts
also,
the
citrate
process was more effective than the acetate process.
This was confirmed in a more recent study [100].
Many attempts have been made to modify the ci-
trate method [101–109]. Most of them were combin-
ing the original technique with other approaches. This
will be mentioned in the next section. As an example,
the solid precursor was decomposed under nitrogen
and subsequently ‘annealed’ in air [106], namely sub-
mitted to special oxidation, in addition to that nor-
mally occurring because of use of nitrates in the ci-
trate process. This could perhaps lead to further inves-
tigation, because one could suppose that (i) the pres-
ence of residual carbon after the first step may hinder
sintering, and (ii) the succession of steps might mod-
ify a segregation of phases if this had been the benefi-
cial effect.
Hybrid complexation methods
The shortcomings of many widestread preparation
techniques led to the use of hybrid approaches. The
idea was to use complexing agents for improving cat-
alyst homogeneity [58, 97]. This has been applied to
different preparation techniques. The success of the
‘citrate’ technique made that the addition of citric
acid, other hydroxy-acids and complexing molecules
was used very frequently. Many different mixtures
have been proposed as precursors, with amounts of
complexing agent varying from small quantities to
stoichiometric excess. It should be noted, conversely,
that so-called ‘modified citrate methods’, instead of
starting
exclusively
from
citrates,
also
use
organometallic salts, sulfates, chlorides, etc. (see, for
example the preparation of TiO2 and TiO2–ZrO2 ox-
ides, in [102, 103]).
The success of these hybrid methods is very
much dependent on the details of the procedures used
and may concern only a few characteristics of the cat-
alysts. In some cases, the advantage of these hybrid
approaches is to modify the amount of carbon residue
that probably can contribute to inhibit sintering [107].
Sulfates leave residues and chlorides often do so as
well. The residues can act as modifiers or doping
agents. The consequence could be alterations of cata-
lytic activity and selectivity.
Possible future developments
This article could not cover all the aspects of catalyst
preparation where the reactivity of solid plays a cru-
cial role. Other lines were developed, or will be cov-
ered in [97].
When future developments are considered, two
directions, in particular, seem promising for the syn-
thesis of solid catalysts of perfect homogeneity at the
sub-nanometer level.
Speculative approaches would be to use specific
colloidal or molecular interactions for preparing pre-
cursors of flexible composition.
The simplest idea would be to flocculate colloids
constituted of species M, N, P, etc., carrying opposite
charges
in
order
to
obtain
three
dimensional
–M+–N––M+–P––M+ clusters. There are very few pub-
lications dealing with this possible method. Current
ideas correspond to very complicated approaches,
like the synthesis of organometallic molecules con-
taining all the desired metals in the desired propor-
tions, that would be calcined or transformed in other
ways under very mild conditions to a solid solution or
a compound containing these two or several elements.
Another approach could be derived from the
sol–gel process. Supposing that a given starting
alkoxide species contained several elements in the
right proportion, the hydrolysis could give a product
uniform in composition. The difference with the con-
ventional sol–gel method would be to start from a sin-
gle building ‘block’, namely a complex alkoxide con-
taining two or several elements, instead of a mixture
of monometallic ‘bricks’. Conceptually, this last ap-
proach corresponds to the way zeolites are con-
structed. Zeolites of different compositions and struc-
ture can be made because the building blocks are dif-
ferent. In zeolite synthesis, colloidal and van der
Waals forces attach building blocks to each other.
Formally, chemical links would do the same as in the
way they act, for example, in the citrate process.
Since the middle of the nineties, considerable ad-
vance has been made in concepts concerning colloidal
processes, molecular recognition, molecular assem-
bly, new polymers and, generally speaking, processes
allowing specific arrangements in space of chemical
entities and chemical functions [106]. It can be no-
ticed that molecular assembly may be assisted by sol-
vents playing the role of templates [110]. Templates
are also essential in assembling correctly the building
blocks in zeolites. This analogy leads to new ideas for
obtaining precursors of very flexible composition.
The problem in sol–gel process is the lack of se-
lectivity in the formation of bonds between different
alkoxides. This leads to an idea advanced by some
specialists in this field, namely to attach different
functions to the parts containing the different ele-
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
61
HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
ments to associate. These functions could be selected
in such a way that each of them only reacts with a sin-
gle matching kind of function [1, 97]. A sort of elabo-
rate ‘Lego’ structure can potentially be constructed
according to this principle. An embodiment of such
ideas for making various materials, including possi-
bly surface-active structures, can be found in [106].
The two approaches described above for modify-
ing the sol–gel process are quite distinct [97]. In one
of them, a single alkoxide containing two or several
different elements is used. In the other one, several
monometallic species, each possessing two or several
chemical functions, would have to be synthezised.
These chemical functions should react selectively to
another type of chemical functions, by a sort of key
and lock recognition. Flexibility in composition of the
product implies that at least three types of functions,
and preferably more, be used. The challenges for
chemical synthesis would be different, organo-
metallic synthesis in the first case, functionalization
in the second. These approaches will certainly show
limitations, both for synthesis and flexibility of com-
position, that the citrate method does not encounter.
Another type of approach makes use of multi-
functional polymers. This involves polymer-metal
complexes based on structurally simple organic poly-
mers such as poly(ethylene glycol), poly(vinyl alco-
hol), poly(acrylic acid), polyamide or polyimide de-
rivatives. This permitted the synthesis of many ox-
ide-type inorganic materials [108, 109]. Recently, in-
vestigations were undertaken for using more elabo-
rate
polymer
structures:
they
consisted
in
polyampholytes resulting from the association of
monomers bearing carboxylic acid and amine moi-
eties. The objective was to synthesize polymer-metal
complexes, which were converted into solid materials
upon appropriate thermal treatment. Depending on
the substituents present on the main chain, these poly-
mers offer the advantage of tunable properties such as
(i) solubility in various polar media, (ii) the number
and nature of functional groups of each type, (iii) the
presence of selected substituents able to induce con-
trolled steric hindrance, (iv) cation complexation, or
(v) formation of superstructures. This approach has
been validated for the obtention of several transition
metal molybdates, starting from inorganic precursors
and a copolymer matrix made of diallylammonium
and (functionalized) maleic or maleamic acid units
[66, 111]. After removal of the solvent, homogeneous
hybrid materials containing up to equimolar amounts
of metals with respect to the ‘repeat unit’ of the copo-
lymer can be obtained. An appropriate thermal treat-
ment under oxidizing conditions generates the final
oxide powder with very low residual amounts of car-
bonaceous species.
Conclusions
In conclusion, making catalysts containing several el-
ements homogeneously distributed in the solid at the
sub-nanometer scale remains a major challenge and
deserves more research than presently. Considered in-
dependently, neither solid state chemistry nor syn-
thetic chemistry approaches alone, even assisted by
chemical engineering, are able to provide simple so-
lutions [58]. Breakthroughs may reasonably be ex-
pected from a cooperative work between several
fields of scientific activity. Even when imperfect for
lack of real molecular dispersion, the search for ho-
mogeneity could be a valuable objective, because
phase cooperation now comes to the forefront of con-
cepts in catalysis, in particular in oxidation reactions.
Most methods used with the objective of ultimate
atomic dispersion could turn out to be superior to
other approaches if phase cooperation is the real ob-
jective, because they actually achieve a very fine
inter-dispersion of zones with different properties.
They could therefore give, together with other meth-
ods, more active and/or selective catalysts because
contacts between phases would be more numerous.
In this chapter, the main topic has been the use of
solid-state transformations to prevent segregation or
large fluctuations of composition during the transfor-
mation of solid precursors to final oxide catalysts. On
the whole, crystalline precursors do not permit the de-
sired composition to be achieved, but they can be ex-
cellent for some specific cases. Amorphous precur-
sors, especially those using polyfunctional hydroxy
acids, can be prepared with almost any possible com-
position and can give the corresponding oxides. The
initial aim of the method was to prepare solid solu-
tions or oxides of two or several elements in well-de-
fined structures, sometimes containing elements sub-
stituted within the normal lattice structure. A single
other method has been claimed to offer similar flexi-
bility. This is the sol–gel method. The two methods
have still to be compared in detail. However, the ki-
netics of hydrolysis change very much from one
alkoxide to another, with the consequence that the
different elements sequentially get incorporated dur-
ing gel formation. Regions, several nanometers in
size, with different properties are formed.
When the objective is to prepare an extremely in-
timate mixture of two or more different oxides, each
of them constituted of very small grains or particles,
techniques such as spray calcination, oil drop, or
freeze-drying, the complexation methods and the
sol–gel method seem to have some valuable potential
in principle. The use of a particular technique is then
dictated by other considerations, such as the availabil-
ity, stability and cost of starting material (especially
for alkoxides) or ease of decomposition.
62
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
DELMON
A very important remark should be added. The
successful transformation of the precursors to a ho-
mogeneous oxide or a finely interdispersed mixture of
oxides demands that diffusion leading to segregation
be made as difficult as possible. In particular, the for-
mation of liquid phases during decomposition and
calcination of the precursor should be completely
avoided. Unfortunately surface contamination is diffi-
cult to avoid.
Heterogeneous catalysts are not just chemicals in
the ordinary sense of the word: they are performance
chemicals or surface-active materials. Naturally, the
performance of the catalyst will depend not so much
on the initial composition or surface of the starting
material, as on the real surface, as it is formed and sta-
bilized and then changes dynamically under the pre-
vailing process conditions. All the rules concerning
the reactivity of solids [112] apply to the correspond-
ing transformations. When designing and making re-
liable catalysts, it is necessary to take into account
process parameters such as temperature, pressure, re-
actant concentration, and space velocity, as well as
variable factors such as feed composition, and unpre-
dictable or unsuspected factors such as impurities and
poisons in the feed [113, 114].
Acknowledgements
Discussions and the elaboration of various articles together
with P. G. Menon and M. Devillers were very helpful for elab-
orating this article. The role of both colleagues is gratefully
acknowledged.
References
1 P. G. Menon and B. Delmon in Handbook of
Heterogeneous Catalysis, G. Ertl, H. Knözinger and
J. Weitkamp, Eds., Vol. I, Wiley-VCH, Weinheim 1997,
Section 2.1.6, pp. 100–118.
2 M. Ruwet and B. Delmon, unpublished results.
3 P. G. Rouxhet and R. E. Sempels, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday
Trans. I, 70 (1974) 2021.
4 C. Sarbu and B. Delmon, Appl. Catal. A, 185 (1999) 85.
5 P. G. Menon and B. Delmon, Handbook of Heterogeneous
Catalysis, G. Ertl, H. Knözinger and J. Weitkamp, Eds.,
Vol. I, Wiley-VCH, Weinheim 1997, Section 2.1.6,
section A, pp.102–104.
6 L. T. Weng and B. Delmon, Appl. Catal. A, 81 (1992) 141.
7 B. Delmon, Heterogen. Chem. Rev., 1 (1994) 219.
8 B. Delmon, Surf. Rev. Lett., 2 (1995) 25.
9 L. T. Weng, P. Patrono, E. Sham, P. Ruiz and B. Delmon,
J. Catal., 132 (1991) 360.
10 P. Courty, H. Ajot, C. Marcilly and B. Delmon, Powder
Technol., 7 (1973) 21.
11 P. Courty and C. Marcilly, Preparation of Catalysts I,
B. Delmon, P. A. Jacobs and G. Poncelet, Eds, Elsevier,
Amsterdam 1976, pp. 119–145.
12 P. Courty and C. Marcilly, Preparation of Catalysts III,
G. Poncelet, P. Grange and P. A. Jacobs, Eds, Elsevier,
Amsterdam 1983, pp. 485–519.
13 C. Marcilly, Rev. Inst. Fr. Petr., 39 (1984) 189.
14 C. Marcilly and J. P. Franck, Rev. Inst. Fr. Petr.,
39 (1984) 337.
15 B. Delmon and N. de Keyser, Chemical and Physical
Aspects of Catalytic Oxidation, J.-L. Portefaix and
F. Figueras, Eds.,CNRS, Lyon 1978, pp. 491–534.
16 B. Delmon, P. A. Jacobs and G. Poncelet, Eds, Preparation
of Catalysts I, Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis,
Vol. 1, Elsevier, Amsterdam 1976.
17 B. Delmon, P. Grange, P. A. Jacobs and G. Poncelet, Eds,
Preparation of Catalysts II, Studies in Surface Science and
Catalysis, Vol. 3, Elsevier, Amsterdam 1979.
18 G. Poncelet, P. Grange and P. A. Jacobs, Eds, Preparation
of Catalysts III, Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis,
Vol. 16, Elsevier, Amsterdam 1983.
19 B. Delmon, P. Grange, P. A. Jacobs and G. Poncelet, Eds,
Preparation of Catalysts IV, Studies in Surface Science
and Catalysis, Vol. 31, Elsevier, Amsterdam 1987.
20 G. Poncelet, P. A. Jacobs, P. Grange and B. Delmon, Eds,
Preparation of Catalysts V, Studies in Surface Science and
Catalysis, Vol. 63, Elsevier, Amsterdam 1991.
21 G. Poncelet, J. Martens, P. A. Jacobs, P. Grange and
B. Delmon, Eds, Preparation of Catalysts VI, Studies in
Surface Science and Catalysis, Vol. 91, Elsevier,
Amsterdam 1995.
22 B. Delmon, P. A. Jacobs, R. Maggi, J. A. Martens,
P. Grange and G. Poncelet, Eds, Preparation of Catalysts
VII, Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis, Vol.118,
Elsevier, Amsterdam 1998.
23 E. Gaigneaux, D. E. De Vos, P. Grange, P. A. Jacobs,
J. A. Martens, P. Ruiz and G. Poncelet, Eds, Scientific
Bases for the Preparation of Heterogeneous Catalysts VIII,
Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis, Vol. 143,
Elsevier, Amsterdam 2002.
24 E. Gaigneaux, M. Devillers, D. E. De Vos, S. Hermans,
P. A. Jacobs, J. A. Martens and P. Ruiz, Eds, Scientific
Bases for the Preparation of Heterogeneous Catalysts IX,
Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis, Vol. 162,
Elsevier, Amsterdam 2006.
25 B. Delmon, Reactivity of Solids, K. Dyrek, J. Haber and
J. Nowotny, Eds, Elsevier, Amsterdam, and PWN,
Warszawa 1982, pp. 327–369.
26 Elsevier, Amsterdam 1985, pp. 81–82.
27 B. Delmon, J. Chim. Phys., 83 (1986) 875.
28 T. Xiao, H. Wang, A. P. E. York, V. C. Williams and
M. L. H. Green, J. Catal., 209 (2002) 318.
29 K. Hada, J. Tanabe, S. Omi and M. Nagai, J. Catal.,
207 (2002) 10.
30 A. Boisen, S. Dahl and C. J. H. Jacobsen, J. Catal.,
208 (2002) 180.
31 P. Perez-Romo, C. Potvin, M.-J. Manoli, M. M. Chehimi
and G. G. A. Somorjai, Chemistry in Two Dimensions:
Surfaces, Cornell University Press, Ithaca, NY 1981.
32 X. Wang, P. Clark and S. T. Oyama, J. Catal.,
208 (2002) 321.
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
63
HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
33 C.-M. Chen and J.-M. Jehng, Appl. Catal. A,
267 (2004) 103.
34 S. Eriksson, U. Nylén, S. Rojas and M. Boutonnet, Appl.
Catal. A, 265 (2004) 207.
35 A. Muto, T. Bhaskar, Y. Kaneshiro, Y. Sakata, Y. Kusano
and K. Murakami, Appl. Catal. A, 275 (2004) 173.
36 J. Knert, A. Drochner, J. Ott, H. Vogel and H. Fuess,
Appl. Catal. A, 269 (2004) 53.
37 M. T. Le, W. J. M. Van Well, I. Van Driessche and
S. Hoste, Appl. Catal. A, 267 (2004) 227.
38 P. Gherardi, O. Ruggeri, F. Trifiro, A. Vaccari, G. Del
Piero, G. Manara and B. Notari, Preparation of
Catalysts III, G. Poncelet, P. Grange and P. A. Jacobs,
Eds, Elsevier, Amsterdam 1983, pp. 723–733.
39 G. Petrini, F. Montino, A. Bossi and F. Garbassi,
Preparation of Catalysts III, G. Poncelet, P. Grange and
P. A. Jacobs, Eds, Elsevier, Amsterdam 1983, pp. 735–744.
40 E. B. M. Doesburg, R. H. Höppener, B. de Koning,
X. Xiaoding and J. J. F. Scholten, Preparation of Catalysts
IV, B. Delmon, P. Grange, P. A. Jacobs and G. Poncelet,
Eds, Elsevier, Amsterdam 1987, pp. 767–783.
41 B. S. Rasmussen, P. E. Hjlund Nielsen, J. Villadsen and
J. B. Hansen, Preparation of Catalysts IV, B. Delmon,
P. Grange, P. A. Jacobs and G. Poncelet, Eds, Elsevier,
Amsterdam 1987, pp. 785–794.
42 W. D. Kingery, Introduction to Ceramics, Wiley, New
York 1960, pp. 291–305.
43 A. S. Desphande, N. Pinna, P. Beato, M. Antonietti and
M. Niederberger, Chem. Mater., 16 (2004) 2599.
44 T. Masui, Y. Peng, K-I. Machida and G-Y. Adachi, Chem.
Mater., 10 (1998) 4005.
45 P. K. Gallager, H. M. O’Bryan, F. Schrey and
F. R. Monforte, Am. Ceram. Soc. Bull., 48 (1969) 1053.
46 W. F. Kladnig and W. Karner, Ceram. Bull., 69 (1990) 814.
47 W. J. Stark, J.-D. Grunwaldt, M. Maciejewski,
S. E. Pratsinis and A. Baiker, Chem. Mater., 17 (2005) 3352.
48 P. Reynen and H. Bastius, Powder Metall. Int.,
8 (1976) 91.
49 M. Matzapetakis, C. P. Raptopoulou, A. Terzis,
A. Lakatos, T. Kiss and A. Salifoglou, Inorg. Chem.,
38 (1999) 618.
50 Y.-F. Deng, Z.-H. Zhou and H.-L. Wan, Inorg. Chem.,
43 (2004) 6266.
51 M. Kaliva, T. Giannadaki and A. Salifoglou, Inorg.
Chem., 41 (2002) 3850.
52 M. Matzapetakis, N. Karligiano, A. Bino, M. Dakanali,
C. P. Raptopoulou, V. Tangoulis, A. Terzis,
J. Giapintzakis and A. Salifoglou, Inorg. Chem.,
39 (2000) 4044.
53 N. Kotsakis, C. P. Raptopoulou, V. Tangoulis, A. Terzis,
J. Giapintzakis, T. Jakusch, T. Kiss and A. Salifoglou,
Inorg. Chem., 42 (2003) 22.
54 Z.-H. Zhou, H.-L. Wan and K.-R. Tsai, Inorg. Chem.,
39 (2000) 59.
55 R. Baggio and M. Perec, Inorg. Chem., 43 (2004) 6965.
56 H. Wullens, D. Leroy and M. Devillers, Int. J. Inorg.
Mater., 3 (2001) 309.
57 H. Wullens, N. Bodart and M. Devillers, J. Solid State
Chem., 167 (2002) 494.
58 B. Delmon, Handbook of Catalyst Preparation,
J. Regalbuto, Ed., Taylor and Francis, Boca Raton, FL
2006, Ch. 18, pp. 449–463.
59 K. L. Fujdala and T. D. Tilley, Chem. Mater.,
13 (2001) 1817.
60 K. L. Fujdala and T. D. Tilley, Chem. Mater.,
16 (2004) 1035.
61 J. Jarupatrakorn, M. P. Coles and T. D. Tilley, Chem.
Mater., 17 (2005) 1818.
62 A. Haoudi, P. Dhamelincourt, A. Mazzah, M. Drache and
P. Conflant, Int. J. Inorg. Mater., 3 (2001) 357.
63 J. W. Kriesel and T. D. Tilley, J. Mater. Chem.,
11 (2001) 1081.
64 D. Bayot, B. Tinant and M. Devillers, Catal. Today,
78 (2003) 439.
65 D. Bayot, B. Tinant and M. Devillers, Inorg. Chem.,
44 (2005) 1554.
66 F. Rullens, M. Devillers and A. Laschewsky, J. Mater.
Chem., 14 (2004) 3421.
67 M. Dakanali, E. T. Kefalas, C. P. Raptopoulou, A. Terzis,
G. Voyiatzis, I. Kyrikou, T. Mavromoustakos and
A. Salifoglou, Inorg. Chem., 42 (2003) 4632.
68 D. Bayot, B. Tinant, B. Mahieu, J.-P. Declercq and
M. Devillers, Eur. J. Inorg. Chem., 4 (2003) 737.
69 D. Bayot, B. Tinant and M. Devillers, Inorg. Chem.,
43 (2004) 5999.
70 D. Bayot and M. Devillers, Chem. Mater., 16 (2004) 5401.
71 J. Paris and R. Paris, Bull. Soc. Chim. Fr., (1965) 138.
72 Y. Saikali and J. M. Paris, Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci.,
Série C, 265 (1967) 1041.
73 G. Paris, G. Szabo and R. A. Paris, Compt. Rend. Acad.
Sci., Série C, 266 (1968) 554.
74 E. Boellaard, A. M. van der Kraan and J. W. Geus,
Preparation of Catalysts VI, G. Poncelet, J. Martens,
P. A. Jacobs, P. Grange and B. Delmon, Eds, Elsevier,
Amsterdam 1995, pp. 931–940.
75 E. Boellaard, Supported Iron (Alloy) Catalysts from
Complex Cyanides, Ph.D. Thesis, Univ. Utrecht 1994.
76 Y. Zhang, G. Xiong, W. Yang and S. Sheng, Natural Gas
Conversion VI, J. J. Spivey, E. Iglesia and T. H. Fleisch,
Eds, Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis, Vol. 133,
Elsevier, Amsterdam 2001, p. 21.
77 C. Marcilly and B. Delmon, Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci.,
Série C, 268 (1969) 1795.
78 P. Courty and B. Delmon, Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci.,
Série C, 268 (1969) 1874.
79 C. Marcilly, P. Courty and B. Delmon, J. Am. Ceram.
Soc., 53 (1970) 56.
80 B. Delmon and J. Droguest, Fine Particles, 2nd Intern.
Conf., W. E. Kuhn and J. Ehretsmann, Eds,
The Electrochemical Soc., Princeton 1974, pp. 242–255.
81 L.D. Pfefferle and W.C. Pfefferle, Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng.,
29 (1987) 219.
82 R. Prasad, L. A. Kennedy and E. Ruckenstein, Catal. Rev.
Sci. Eng., 26 (1984) 1.
83 M. Alifanti, B. Baps, N. Blangenois, J. Naud, P. Grange
and B. Delmon, Chem. Mater., 15 (2003) 395.
84 K. Sekizawa, K. Eguchi and H. Arai, J. Catal.,
142 (1993) 655.
85 H. Arai, T. Yamada, K. Eguchi and T. Seiyama, Appl.
Catal. A, 26 (1986) 265.
86 J. G. McCarty and H. Wise, Catal. Today, 8 (1990) 231.
87 T. Seiyama, Catal. Rev. Sc. Eng., 34 (1992) 281.
88 L. G. Tejuca, J. L. G. Fierro and J. M. D. Tascon, Adv.
Catal., 36 (1989) 237.
64
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
DELMON
89 J. Kirchnerova, M. Alifanti and B. Delmon, Appl. Catal.
A, 231 (2002) 65.
90 D.Terribile, A. Tovarelli, C. de Leitenburg, A. Primavera
and G. Dolcetti, Catal. Today, 47 (1999) 133.
91 P. E. Marti and A. Baiker, Catal. Lett., 26 (1994) 71.
92 N. Yamazoe and Y. Teraoka, Catal. Today, 8 (1990) 175.
93 M. Alifanti, J. Kirchnerova and B. Delmon, Appl.
Catal. A, 245 (2003) 231.
94 M. Alifanti, R. Auer, J. Kirchnerova, F. Thyrion,
P. Grange and B. Delmon, Appl. Catal. B: Environmental,
41 (2003) 71.
95 M. F. Wilkes, P. Hayden and A. K. Bhattacharya,
J. Catal., 219 (2003) 286.
96 D.Terribile, A. Tovarelli, C. de Leitenburg, A. Primavera
and G. Dolcetti, Catal. Today, 47 (1999) 133.
97 B. Delmon and M. Devillers, Ch. 3.7, Solid State
Reactions, in Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis,
2nd Ed., G. Ertl, H. Knözinger, F. Schüth and J. Weitkamp,
Eds., Vol. I, Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, (accepted for
publication, probably for 2007).
98 Y. Teraoka, H-M. Zhang and N. Yamazoe, Proc.
9th Internat. Congr. Catal., Calgary 1988, pp. 1984–1991.
99 H-M. Zhang, Y. Teraoka and N. Yamazoe, Appl. Catal.,
41 (1988) 137.
100 M. Alifanti, N. Blangenois, M. Florea and B. Delmon,
Appl. Catal. A, 280 (2005) 255.
101 S. Lambert, C. Cellier, P. Grange, J.-P. Pirard and
B. Heinrichs, J. Catal., 221 (2004) 335.
102 H. Zou and Y. S. Lin, Appl. Catal. A, 265 (2004) 35.
103 Y. Wan, J. Ma, W. Zhou, Y. Zhu, X. Song and H. Li,
Appl. Catal. A, 277 (2004) 55.
104 P. Cavani, F. Trifiro and A. Vaccari, Catal. Today,
11 (1991) 173.
105 Ph. Courty, H. Ajot and B. Delmon, Compt. Rend. Acad.
Sci., Série C, 276C (1973) 1147.
106 H. Fan and J. Brinker, Mesoporous Crystals and Related
Nano-Structured Materials, O. Terasaki, Ed., Studies in
Surface Science and Catalysis, Vol. 148, Elsevier,
Amsterdam 2004, p. 213.
107 J. C. W. Chien, B. M. Gong, Y. Yang, I. Cabrera,
J. Effing and H. Ringsdorf, Adv. Mater., 2 (1990) 305.
108 K. Naka, Y. Tanaka, K. Yamasaki, A. Ohki, Y. Chujo
and S. Maeda, Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn., 74 (2001) 571
109 K.-B. Park, H.-J. Kweon, Y.-S. Hong, S.-J. Kim and
K. Kim, J. Mater. Sci., 32 (1997) 57.
110 P. Jonkheim, E. W. Meijer and A. H. J. Schenning,
Science, 313 (2006) 80.
111 F. Rullens, N. Deligne, A. Laschewsky and M. Devillers,
J. Mater. Chem., 15 (2005) 1668.
112 V. V. Boldyrev, M. Bulens and B. Delmon, The Control
of the Reactivity of Solids, Studies in Surface Science and
Catalysis, Vol. 2, Elsevier, Amsterdam 1979.
113 P. G. Menon, Catal. Today, 11 (1991) 161.
114 P. G. Menon, Chem. Rev., 94 (1994) 1021.
DOI: 10.1007/s10973-007-8476-y
J. Therm. Anal. Cal., 90, 2007
65
HETEROGENEOUS CATALYSTS
