element not found
element not found
为了改善您的体验，在您同意我们所有网站和应用的情况下，我们（和我们的合作伙伴）在您连接的终端上存储和/或访问您终端上的信息（cookie或对应信息）。
我们的网站可能会将这些cookie用于：
不通过资料收集而判定我们网站上广告的受众
根据您的导航和个人资料展示个性化广告
根据您的导航个性化我们的编辑内容
允许您在我们网站上的社交网络或平台上分享内容
根据您的位置向您发送广告
隐私政策
设定偏好
全部接受
全部拒绝
Access ByTianjin University
SmallVolume 13, Issue 44 1701857
Communication
Full Access
Tailoring N-Terminated Defective Edges of Porous Boron Nitride for Enhanced Aerobic Catalysis
Peiwen Wu, 
Shize Yang, 
Wenshuai Zhu, 
Hongping Li, 
Yanhong Chao, 
Huiyuan Zhu, 
Huaming Li, 
Sheng Dai
First published: 05 October 2017
https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201701857
Citations: 65
About
Sections
Abstract
Tailoring terminated edge of hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) for enhancing catalysis has turned to be an imperative for the rational design of a highly active aerobic catalyst. Herein, a tailoring N-terminated porous BN (P-BN) strategy is reported with a zinc (Zn) salt as a dual-functional template. The Zn salt acts as both an in situ template and an N-terminated defective edges directing agent. The zinc salt template turns to Zn nanoparticles (Zn NPs) and functions as physical spacers, which are subsequently removed at a higher temperature, for producing P-BN, whose high surface area is high to 1579 m2 g−1. Moreover, because of the lower electronegativity of Zn, boron (B) atoms are partly replaced by Zn atoms and ultimately preferred to N-terminated edges with the volatilization of Zn NPs. Owing to the moderate dissociative energy of oxygen atoms on N-terminated edges, the N-terminated edges are proved to be the origin of an enhanced aerobic catalytic activity by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Moreover, the DFT calculation result is experimentally verified.
Hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN), a representative graphene-analogous 2D material,1 has drawn significant interests in numerous fields.2 More recently, the discovery of its activating ability to oxygen molecules revolutionized its applications.3 The most important progress in this area is the recent work reported by Hermans and co-workers.[3] They found that the commercially available h-BN functioned as an efficient catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, whose catalytic activity and selectivity are even comparable to industrial supported vanadium oxide catalysts. However, no synthetic strategy toward active sites in h-BN catalysts was proposed in the above and other related works. Consequently, a rationally designed h-BN catalyst is crucial in enhancing catalytic activity.
A key point is the clarification of the catalytic active sites to achieve such a goal. In graphene, carbon nanotubes, or other carbon-based catalysts, the active sites are often located in defective edges and the vast pristine regions are chemically inert.4 Considering the analogous structure between graphene and h-BN, defective edges in h-BN would be catalytically active sites as well. Nonetheless, the defective edges in h-BN are more complicated than in graphene because h-BN is composed of equal numbers of boron (B) and nitride (N) atoms; thus, there would exist B-terminated edges, N-terminated edges, and armchair-structure edges in h-BN. Hermans and co-workers proposed that the armchair structure was the catalytic active sites by theoretical calculation but not experimentally proved.[3] What's more, for different catalytic systems, the catalytically active sites may be diverse. Thus, crafting highly active h-BN catalysts at the atomic level for certain aerobic reaction is in urgent need.
To attain this goal, two strategies can be adopted: generating abundant active sites and making them more accessible. For generating abundant active sites, an agent-assisted synthesis is an efficient strategy to achieve this target,5 but such a strategy has not been reported in the field of h-BN catalysts. Generally, with the presence of the structure-directing agent, the atomic arrangement can be tailored according to the templated interaction, thereby controlling the final structure at the atomic level. Meanwhile, for making active sites more accessible, the construction of a porous structure is one of the most common techniques.6 With numerous pores, a high specific surface area (SSA) can be expected7 and the active sites in the pristine regions can be exposed.8 However, as discussed above, the fabrication of needed active sites and construction of pores are the totally two disparate steps, making the realization of the both goals concurrently rather difficult. Hence, a suitable strategy that can achieve the two targets simultaneously is actively pursued.
Herein, we found that Zinc (Zn) salt can provide such multiple benefits to the preparation of P-BN. With the presence of relatively high temperature and reducing gases, the Zn salt turned to Zn nanoparticles (Zn NPs), which functioned as physical spacers during the formation process of P-BN. Because of the low boiling point of metallic Zn, it was removed at a higher temperature. Moreover, due to the active property and lower electronegativity of Zn than boron (B), B atoms around the interfaces between h-BN and Zn NPs were partly replaced by Zn atoms and ultimately produced N-terminated edges with the volatilization of Zn NPs. With this strategy, artificially constructed N-terminated edges and a rather high SSA of up to 1579 m2 g−1 were obtained (the fabrication procedure of N-terminated P-BN and intermediate/final products are schematically presented in Figure 1a). Moreover, the preferential N-terminated edges proved to be active sites for the activation of oxygen in aerobic oxidation of aromatic sulfur compounds, via both density functional theory (DFT) calculations and chemical titration.
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) Schematic diagram of the formation procedure of P-BNs; b) XRD patterns of intermediates at different temperatures. A) 100 °C, B) 200 °C, C) 300 °C, D) 500 °C, E) 600 °C, F) 800 °C, and G) 900 °C; c) N 1s core-level spectra of reaction intermediate at 800 °C; and d) N 1s core-level spectra of P-BN-6.
To provide intuitive proof of the formation process, the reacted intermediates were collected at different temperatures and tested by X-ray diffraction (XRD) (Figure 1b). The results show that a BN crystalline phase formed at 300 °C. Based on the physicochemical property of Zn(Ac)2, the Zn template started to decompose at ≈237 °C, which is lower than the BN formation temperature, to form metallic Zn NPs with the existence of reducing gases; and further acted as a physical spacer during the BN formation process (disappearance of Zn peak is ascribed to the poor crystallinity at low temperature). After a temperature increased to 500 °C, peaks for metallic Zn were spotted and remained to 800 °C. A transmission electron microscope (TEM) image taken at 800 °C intermediate shows Zn presenting in the form of Zn NPs (Figure S1, Supporting Information). After the temperature increased to 900 °C, the peaks for the Zn NPs disappeared (Figure 1b(G), also proved by TEM in Figure S2 in the Supporting Information). The disappearance of the peaks attributed to the evaporation of the Zn NPs from the reaction intermediates (the boiling point of Zn is 905 °C), leading to the formation of P-BN with abundant N-terminated defective edges (Figure 1a(iii)).
In the artificial construction of pores with abundant N-terminated defective edges, a point worth noting is that Zn has lower electronegativity than B. Based on the Pauling scale, the electronegativity of Zn (χP [Zn]) is 1.65 and that of χP [B] is 2.04. The difference value (D-value) between Zn and N is 1.39, whereas the D-value between B and N is 1.00 (χP [N] = 3.04). As is well known, a larger χPD-value indicates a more stable phase. Thus, during the reaction process, Zn atoms could replace B atoms at BN edges to enable coordination between Zn atoms and N atoms (Figure 1a(ii)). To provide direct evidence for this speculation, an X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) spectrum N 1s core-level was measured to determine the chemical interaction of reaction intermediates (Figure 1c). Compared with final P-BN (Figure 1d), a small peak around 396.2 eV, attributing to coordination behavior between Zn atoms and N atoms, can be detected in the reaction intermediate. With the total removal of metallic Zn NPs, the artificially constructed N-terminated structure was gained.
Detailed fine structures of the prepared P-BN-6 were carefully characterized by scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) and accessorial high-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HR-EELS) (Figure 2). The STEM medium angle annular dark field (MAADF) image in Figure 2a depicts porous structures of P-BN-6 with pore sizes of 3–4 nm, locating on the surface. The result illustrates that the Zn template functioned as a physical spacer, artificially produced more exposed edges. Meanwhile, the 2D structure was clearly seen from the edge of the STEM image, indicating that the structure is composed of nanosheets. Atomic resolution STEM MAADF image in Figure 2b reveals the hexagonal arrangement of boron nitride. In addition, a hollow with a diameter of ≈4 nm was detected, which was originated from the volatilization of metallic Zn NPs, in line with the formation speculation. Moreover, the layer in P-BN-6 is about 4, indicating that the prepared P-BN is a few-layered structure. To analyze the atomic arrangement and N-terminated porous structures of P-BN-6, zoom-in atomic-resolution STEM MAADF was performed (Figure 2c), providing evidence of a honeycomb texture. The bond length was measured at 1.56 Å, close to the theoretical value for the hexagonal phase of boron nitride. B atoms and N atoms in the atomic-resolution STEM MAADF image are distinguished by their brightness. The lighter spots in Figure 2c are N atoms and the darker spots are B atoms. To make the arrangement of atoms more clear, we marked the B atoms with lavender solid rims and the N atoms with blue solid rims. The N-terminated structure around the pores is detected. It is worth mentioning that two B atoms are missing in the hexagonal ring of BN (marked as broken lavender circles), making the original B-terminated edges into N-terminated edges. The result confirms our speculation regarding the formation mechanism of N-terminated edges, which is that Zn atoms replace B atoms edges and escape as Zn vapor, giving rise to abundant N-terminated edges. To demonstrate the elemental configuration and local elemental contents around N-terminated edges of the pores, HR-EELS was performed. HR-EELS of zigzags around the pores and the inner portion of P-BN are presented in Figure 2d. Sharp peaks and then wider peaks for B and N atom K-edge absorptions are clearly seen. These were attributed to 1s–π∗ and 1s–σ∗ transitions, respectively, which are clear signs of sp2-hybridization, giving evidence of the hexagonal arrangement of B and N atoms in the sheets.9 In the B atom K-edge adsorption spectra, compared with the inner sections, the π* peak shifted to 192.6 eV, which is attributable to the existence of N-terminated sites.9 The most noticeable information from the HR-EELS is the molar ratio of B and N atoms (Tables S1 and S2, Supporting Information). For inner regions of the nanosheets without pores and defects, quantification of the spectrum shows a B/N ratio of 1.00/1.00; whereas for the zigzags with N-terminated edges, quantification of the spectrum holds a B/N ratio of 0.89/1.00. These values indicate that the introduction of Z templates can give rise to more artificially N-terminated edges.
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) STEM image of P-BN-6, Scale bar: 20 nm; b) atomic resolution STEM MAADF image of exposed edge in P-BN-6, Scale bar: 2 nm; c) atomic resolution STEM MAADF image of P-BN-6, Scale bar: 0.5 nm; d) high-resolution EELS of inner area (blue circle) and edge area (red rectangle) from (b) and Figure S3 in the Supporting Information. Lavender solid rims: B atoms; blue solid rims: N atoms; broken lavender circles: B vacancies.
To further confirm the chemical and spatial structures of the prepared samples, some other characterizations were carried out (Figures S4–S8, Supporting Information). All the characterizations reveal that the prepared P-BNs are porous species with BN phase stability. Their porous texture was determined by N2 sorption–desorption at 77 K (Figure S9, Supporting Information). The results revealed that g-BN had type II isotherms, whereas P-BN had type IV isotherm, indicating that g-BN had a nonporous structure and P-BNs held a porous structure. The SSAs of P-BNs were 943, 1579, 904, and 442 m2 g−1 for n = 3, 6, 12, and 0 (when n = 0 stands for g-BN), respectively. The corresponding pore size distribution validate the conclusion that almost no pores in g-BN, whereas for P-BNs, with increasing template amounts, the sizes of the mesopores were 2 nm, 4 nm, and macroscale for P-BN-3, P-BN-6, and P-BN-12, respectively. To clarify the origin of different pore size distribution, TEM images of intermediates at 800 °C was performed (Figures S1, S10–S11, Supporting Information). The TEM characterization of reaction intermediates shows that the sizes of metallic Zn NPs increased with the incremental amount of Zn template. After the Zn evaporated from the boron nitride, pores with different sizes are thusly remained.
To investigate the O2 activation ability of the P-BNs, they were introduced as catalysts for aerobic oxidation of dibenzothiophene (DBT) (Figure 3a). The aerobic catalytic oxidation ratio was 48% with graphene-like (g-BN) as the catalyst, whereas aerobic catalytic activities rose to higher than 70% with P-BNs as catalysts. For P-BN-6, the catalytic efficiency reached 99%. When using different gases as oxidants in the reaction, it can be seen that P-BN is a promising catalyst for activation of oxygen (Figure S12, Supporting Information). Additionally, P-BN-6 was reused for 10 times without a significant decrease in aerobic catalytic activity (Figure 3b).
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) Aerobic catalytic activities of all samples; b) recycling performance of P-BN-6; c) molecular adsorption of O2 on flat h-BN; d) dissociative adsorption of O2 on flat h-BN; e) dissociative adsorption of O2 on armchair edges; f) dissociative adsorption of O2 on B-terminated edges; g) dissociative adsorption of O2 on N-terminated edges; and h) catalytic activity of chemical titrated P-BN-6 and g-BN-B. Reaction conditions in a, b, and h: T = 120 °C, V (solution) = 40 mL, m (Catal.) = 100 mg, v (air) = 100 mL min−1.
To reach a deep understanding of the active sites for the reaction studied, DFT combining with a cluster model of h-BN was employed to disclose the mechanism of O2 activation. A dispersion-corrected hybrid density functional (B3LYP-D3) with a 6–31+G(d) basis set was used to calculate the involved energetics on the h-BN surface. All the calculations were achieved by the Gaussian 09 suite of programs.10 First, molecular adsorption of O2 on flat h-BN was carried out (Figure 3b). The bond length of O–O was 1.22 Å, which was slightly longer than the length in the gas phase (1.21 Å). This result indicates that O2 was almost inactivated in this step. Furthermore, the adsorptive energy for this step was only −2.2 kcal mol−1, showing that O2 interacted weakly with the flat g-BN surface. Then, four models were set up and the bond length of O–O and dissociative energies were carefully calculated (Table S3, Supporting Information). Models in Figure 3e–g show that oxygen can be activated on armchair edges, B-terminated edges and N-terminated edges. However, considering the reaction heat for oxidation of aromatic sulfur (−26.4 kcal mol−1) is comparable to the dissociative energy of oxygen on N-terminated edges (−25.9 kcal mol−1), indicating that DBT can abstract oxygen atoms from N-terminated edges easily, while difficult from armchair edges and B-terminated edges. Hence, we suggest that the active site for current reaction on P-BN may be the N-terminated zigzags around pores. This analysis showed it is the rationally designed N-terminated zigzags that making our current P-BN a highly active catalyst.
To give direct evidence of the above conclusion, chemical titration was employed. To verify whether the active sites were located at edges, we used a ball-milled g-BN (g-BN-B) as the catalyst, which had more exposed edges than pristine g-BN. As shown in Figure 3h, the catalytic activity was better than pristine g-BN, affirming that the edges work as active sites. Furthermore, the P-BN-6 was treated by a chemical titration method to obtain different atom-exposed edges (Figures S13 and S14, Supporting Information).11 Fourier transform infrared spectrum (FT-IR) characterizations showed that chemical titration delivered the desired results (Figures S15 and S16, Supporting Information). For P-BN-E (P-BN-6 was treated by ethanol, detailed process see Supporting Information), whose all exposed edges were covered by ethanol, the catalytic activity declined sharply to ≈10%, indicating that the active sites were located on the edges of the P-BN. To further seek for the active sites, we covered all B-terminated edge sites with –NH2 (both B-terminated edges and armchair edges cannot function as active sites, denoted as P-BN-NH2), and the catalytic activity showed no decrease. These results showed that N-terminated edge sites are active sites, which is consistent with the DFT results. With abundant N-terminated edges from the Zn templates, the prepared P-BNs showed quite satisfying catalytic performance.
In conclusion, we have successfully constructed a porously structured boron nitride via a simple and low-cost Zn templating strategy. The Zn salt was proved to be a dual-functional template. It not only could function as a template and a physical spacer for the construction of porous boron nitride with SSAs up to 1579 m2 g−1, but also acted as a synthesis-directing agent that generated abundant artificial N-terminated pores. A high catalytic activity, along with excellent recycling performance, in aerobic oxidation of aromatic sulfur compounds was expected. DFT calculation indicated that the enhanced catalytic activity mainly originated from the moderate dissociative energy of oxygen atoms on N-terminated edges. Additionally, the DFT calculation results were confirmed by Experimental Section. The current work not only provided a strategy for constructing porous materials but also supplied a pathway for highly active boron nitride catalysts.
Experimental Section
See the Supporting Information.
Acknowledgements
P.W.W. and S.Z.Y. contributed equally to this work. The authors thank the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 21576122, 21376111, and 21506083), and the Postgraduate Innovation Project of Jiangsu Province (NO. KYLX15_1067). P.W.W. is grateful to a scholarship from the China Scholarship Council. The electron microscopy (S.Z.Y.) was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Science, Basic Energy Sciences, Materials Science and Engineering, and through a user project supported by ORNL's Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences, which is sponsored by the Scientific User Facilities Division of U.S. Department of Energy. This research used resources of the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center, a DOE Office of Science User Facility supported by the Office of Science of the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231. This work used the Extreme Science and Engineering Discovery Environment (XSEDE), which was supported by the National Science Foundation grant number ACI-1053575 and Grant No DMR160118. S.D. was sponsored by the Division of Chemical Sciences, Geosciences, and Biosciences, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, DOE.
Conflict of Interest
The authors declare no conflict of interest.
Supporting Information
References
Citing Literature
Download PDF
Additional links
ABOUT WILEY ONLINE LIBRARY
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
About Cookies
Manage Cookies
Accessibility
Wiley Research DE&I Statement and Publishing Policies
Developing World Access
HELP & SUPPORT
Contact Us
Training and Support
DMCA & Reporting Piracy
OPPORTUNITIES
Subscription Agents
Advertisers & Corporate Partners
CONNECT WITH WILEY
The Wiley Network
Wiley Press Room
Copyright © 1999-2024 John Wiley & Sons, Inc or related companies. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence technologies or similar technologies.