Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization: Application
in Organic Synthesis
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi*, Naoto Chatani
Department of Applied Chemistry, Faculty of Engineering, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan
Fax:  81-6-6879-7396, e-mail: kakiuchi@chem.eng.osaka-u.ac.jp
Received: May 12, 2003; Accepted: July 17, 2003
Abstract: The development of catalytic reactions
involving carbon-hydrogen bond cleavage is currently
one of the most attractive research subjects in organic
and organometallic chemistry. About 40 years have
past since the pioneering report of the cleavage of
CH bonds with transition metal complexes. Since
that time, a vast number of studies of the cleavage of
CH bonds, using stoichiometric amounts of transi-
tion metal complexes has appeared. In the last
decade, a variety of catalytic reactions involving
CH bond cleavage has been reported. In this review
we briefly survey the results of these research
activities with respect to the catalytic use of unreac-
tive CH bonds in organic synthesis.
1
Introduction
2
Catalytic CC Bond Formation via CH Bond
Cleavage
2.1 Addition of CH Bonds to C/C Double Bonds
2.2 Addition of CH Bonds to C/C Triple Bonds
2.3 Oxidative Coupling of Arenes with Olefins via
Electrophilic Substitution by Transition Metal
Complexes
2.4 Coupling of CH Bonds, Carbon Monoxide, and
Olefins
2.5 Catalytic Arylation of CH Bonds
3
Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
4
Catalytic Silylation of CH Bonds
5
Catalytic Borylation of CH Bonds
6
Conclusions
Keywords: alkenylation; alkylation; borylation; car-
bonylation; CC bond formation; CH activation;
silylation; transition metal catalysts
1 Introduction
Carbon-hydrogen bonds (abbreviated to CH bonds
hereafter) are ubiquitous in organic compounds. If the
CH bonds could be used as a functional group, similar
to a carbon-halogen bond, it would become one of the
most powerful, valuable, straightforward methods for
producing complex molecules and for the construction
of CC bond frameworks. However, the bond dissoci-
ation energy of a CH bond is usually large, e.g.,
105 kcal/mol
for
HCH3,
and
110 kcal/mol
for
HC6H5.[1] Therefore, such a CH bond cleavage was
generally believed to be difficult.
In 1963, Kleiman and Dubeck reported the possibility
of CH bond cleavage in azobenzene by the Cp2Ni
complex, Eq. (1).[2] The reaction mechanism for this
metalation reaction has not been elucidated, but the
ortho-CH bond was apparently cleaved.
1
Two years later, in 1965, Chatt and Davidson reported
on the first example of the oxidative addition of a CH
bond to the zero-valent ruthenium center to give the
Ru(H)(2-naphthyl)(dmpe)2 [dmpe  1,2-bis(dimethyl-
phosphino)ethane] complex, which is in equilibrium
with a -coordinated naphthalene ruthenium complex,
Ru(naphthalene)(dmpe)2, Eq. (2).[3] They also reported
that the sp3 CH bond of the methyl group in the dmpe
ligand can be cleaved by the ruthenium(0) complex.
2
After these pioneering studies, many research groups
have reported on the cleavage of CH bonds via the use
of a stoichiometric amount of transition metal com-
plexes.[4] To date, a large number of review articles is
available and the fundamental features of the CH bond
cleavage reactions have been elucidated.[4,5] Nearly all of
these review articles deal with studies of the stoichio-
metic cleavage of CH bonds by transition metal
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
DOI: 10.1002/adsc.200303094
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1077
complexes.[4] Onthe contrary, as for the transition metal-
catalyzed functionalization of CH bonds, the chemistry
is considered to be still in its early stages and the only
examples have appeared in the literature in the early
1990s.[6±8]
In 1989, Jordan reported on the Zr-catalyzed addition
of a CH bond in -picoline to an olefin.[6] Moore found
in 1992 that the Ru-catalyzed three-component cou-
pling of pyridine, carbon monoxide, and olefin provides
the corresponding -acylpyridines in good yields.[7]
Subsequently, in 1993 Murai reported on the highly
efficient, selective functionalization of CH bonds in
aromatic ketones with olefins in the presence of a
ruthenium catalyst.[8] Since these discoveries, the chem-
istry of the catalytic use of CH bonds in organic
synthesis has rapidly expanded.
This review article will broadly survey the literature
dealing with the catalytic use of otherwise unreactive sp2
and sp3 CH bonds in organic synthesis until early in the
year 2003. However, several areas, e.g., hydroacylation
of olefins and acetylenes with aldehydes, Michael
addition and aldol reactions using active methylene
compounds, reactions involving transition metal-carbe-
noids, reactions using aryl halides, acetylenes, and
palladium complexes, and reactions in the presence of
heterogeneous catalysts, will not be dealt with. In this
review, only limited numbers of examples which involve
unusual significance, originality, or complexity will be
presented in equation form.
2 Catalytic CC Bond Formation via a
CH Bond Cleavage
Carbon-carbon bond formation is one of the most
important reactions in organic synthesis.[9] A large
number of methods has been published in the literature
and this chemistry continues to grow. When the CC
bond formation is carried out catalytically, relatively
reactive functional groups such as halogen and triflates
are usually used.[10] The important step for these
reactions is the generation of metal-carbon bonds via
oxidative addition of the CX bond (X  halogen,
triflate) to low-valent transition metal complexes. The
insertion of small molecules such as olefins, acetylenes,
and carbon monoxide into the metal-carbon bond is
followed by a reductive elimination, resulting in CC
bond formation. If CH bonds can be used like carbon-
halogen bonds for constructing a CC bond, the
reaction becomes one of the most valuable, powerful,
straightforward procedures in organic synthesis. In this
section, transition metal-catalyzed CC bond formation
through a CH bond cleavage will be discussed.
2.1 Addition of CH Bonds to C/C Double Bonds
The catalytic addition of CH bonds to olefins con-
stitutes one of the most efficient, economical methods
for constructing CC bond frameworks. In 1978, Yama-
zaki reported on some pioneering studies in this area.[11]
The reaction of benzene, used as a solvent, with
diphenylketene in the presence of Rh4(CO)12 as a
catalyst gives diphenylmethyl phenyl ketone in good
yield with moderate selectivity, Eq. (3). The use of a CO
atmosphere is essential in achieving a catalytic reaction
although no CO incorporation occurs, probably because
carbon monoxide maintains the catalyst in an active
form. In the examination of the relative reactivities of
several aromatic compounds, they found that fluoro-
benzene is more reactive than toluene. On the basis of
these results, they proposed that the CH bond cleavage
step by the rhodium complex appears to be nucleophilic
in nature. The rhodium catalyst is also effective for the
dehydrogenative vinylation of benzenes with ethylene
to give styrenes.[12]
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi was born
in Hoyogo, Japan, in 1965 and
received his B.Sc. in 1988 and
Ph. D. in 1993 from Osaka
University under the guid-
ance of Prof. Shinji Murai.
He was appointed as an As-
sistant
Professor
at
Osaka
University in 1993. He did
his postdoctoral work with
Prof. E. N. Jacobsen at Har-
vard University in 1996 ± 1997. In 2000, he was
appointed as an Associate Professor at Osaka
University. His research interests include the devel-
opment of new transition metal-catalyzed reactions.
Naoto Chatani was born in
Hyogo, Japan, in 1956. He
studied chemistry at Osaka
University and received his
Ph. D. in 1984 under the guid-
ance by Profs. Noboru Sono-
da and Shinji Murai. In 1984
he
joined
the
Institute
of
Scientific and Industrial Re-
search at Osaka University
and worked in the laboratory
of Prof. Terukiyo Hanafusa. After postdoctoral
studies (1988 ± 1989 under Prof. Scott E. Denmark,
the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign), he
moved back to Osaka University and was promoted
to Associate Professor in 1992 and Professor in
2003. His research interests center on the area of
catalysis.
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1078
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
3
The double insertion of ethylene into aniline with the aid
of rhodium(III) chloride hydrate gives the cyclization
product, 2-methylquinoline, Eq. (4).[13] Forcing reaction
conditions (a high ethylene pressure, 100 kg/cm2, and a
high temperature, 200C) and the use of an excess of
aniline are required for this catalytic reaction to proceed
efficiently. The addition of an sp3 CH bond adjacent to
a nitrogen atom in dimethylamine to 1-pentene is
catalyzed
by
the
tungsten
amide
complex
W(NMe2)n,[14] which is a 2:1 adduct of W2(NMe2)6/
W(NMe2)6,
to
give
N-methyl-N-(2-methylpentyl)a-
mine, Eq. (5).[15] The similar type of reaction involving
an  CH bond adjacent to oxygen with tert-butyl-
ethylene is catalyzed by IrH5(PiPr3)2 under relatively
mild reaction conditions (50C).[16] This reaction is
formally a dehydrogenative coupling. Hydrogenation of
the olefin is the key for regenerating the catalytically
active species since the generation of molecular hydro-
gen by reductive elimination from an H-M-H species is
usually a thermally unfavorable pathway.[17] Thus, in this
reaction, the olefin functions as an acceptor of the CH
bond and also as a scavenger of two hydrogen atoms
from the metal center.
4
5
The heteroatom-directed ethylation of a phenol on the
benzene ring is catalyzed by a ruthenium(II)-phosphite
complex. This alkylation takes place exclusively at the
position ortho to the hydroxy group, and the corre-
sponding 1:2 addition product is the major product,
Eq. (6).[18] The alkylation of -picoline with a terminal
olefin occurs at a position  to the nitrogen with the aid
of a cationic zirconium catalyst, Eq. (7).[6] For this
reaction, the protection of one  CH bond of the
pyridine ring with an alkyl group is required to conduct
this reaction in a catalytic manner. This reaction can be
extended to an asymmetric version. An example of the
asymmetric -alkylation of the picoline via CH bond
cleavage reaction using a chiral tetrahydroindenyl-
zirconium complex has been reported by Jordan.[6b]
The enantiomeric excess of the product is up to 58% ee.
Another type of coupling reaction was reported by
Jones:[19] the RuH2 (dmpe)2-catalyzed intramolecular
insertion of isocyanide into the benzylic CH bond in
2,6-xylyl isonitrile leading to indole derivatives.
6
7
In 1993, Murai found the first example of a highly
efficient, selective CH/olefin coupling reaction.[8] The
reaction of aromatic ketones with olefins in the presence
of RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3 gave the corresponding ortho-
alkylated compounds in quite high yields, Eq. (8).
Various combinations of aromatic ketones and olefins
are applicable to this reaction. Carbon-carbon bond
formation occurred exclusively at the position ortho to
the carbonyl group. The important feature of this
reaction is the coordination of the carbonyl group to
the ruthenium, bringing the ruthenium closer proximity
to the ortho CH bonds.
8
Murai reported on the successful use of a variety of
directing groups including ketones,[20] esters,[21] alde-
hydes,[22] aldimines,[23] ketimines,[23] amidinates,[24] hy-
drazones,[25] and nitriles.[26] The ruthenium-catalyzed
coupling of aromatic ketones with olefins is tolerant of
several functional groups [e.g., NMe2, OMe, F, NEt-
C(O)Me, CF3, CO2Et, CN, acetals, OC(O)CH3]. As
shown in Figure 1, the regioselectivity is basically
controlled by steric factors. In the case of the reaction
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1079
of m-substituted acetophenones, the corresponding 6-
alkylated products are obtained as the major product
(Figure 1). Interestingly, however, the reactions of m-
fluoro- and m-methoxyacetophenones with triethoxy-
vinylsilane take place at the more congested ortho
position, i.e., 2-position (Figure 2; 1 and 2, respectively).
When a strong electron-withdrawing CF3 group, which
should decrease the electron density of the adjacent
atom, is introduced on the ether oxygen as in 3, the
alkylation takes place preferentially at the less con-
gested position. These results suggest that heteroatoms
may additionally assist in the regioslectivity determi-
nation step.
Murai has claimed that there are two plausible
mechanisms with respect to the CH bond cleavage
step (Scheme 1).[20b] One is a usual oxidative addition of
the CH bond to the ruthenium center which proceeds
through transition state TSA (path a, concerted path-
way). In the other case, the CH bond cleavage through
intermediate B occurs in two steps (path b, stepwise
pathway). Therefore, in the first step the ruthenium-
carbon bond is formed without CH bond cleavage and
in the second step the hydrogen at the ortho position is
transferred to the ruthenium atom. Both mechanisms
satisfactorily explain the ortho selectivity. Morokuma
and Koga reported that the latter mechanism (path b) is
reasonable for the CH bond cleavage by the ruthenium
complex on the basis of ab initio theoretical calcula-
tions.[27] For their theoretical calculation, they used
benzaldehyde and ethylene as models of aromatic
ketone and olefin. Their calculation revealed that the
highly selective ortho CH bond cleavage of the
aromatic ketones stems from the coordination of the
carbonyl oxygen to the ruthenium center. If the reaction
passes through the conventional three-centered transi-
tion state (path a), a much larger activation energy
(20.1 kcal/mol) would be required. On the contrary, if
the CH bond is cleaved through novel metalacycle
intermediate B, the reaction proceeds with an extremely
small activation energy (1.8 ± 3.0 kcal/mol). Therefore,
their calculation suggests that the coordination of the
carbonyl oxygen to the ruthenium center is the key for
the success of the ruthenium-catalyzed CH/olefin
coupling and the reductive elimination, i.e., CC bond
formation is rate-determining.
Deuterium-labeling experiments and 13C kinetic iso-
tope effects (KIE) for the RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3-catalyzed
reaction of aromatic ketones with olefins provide
significant information concerning the rate-determining
step. The catalytic reaction of acetophenone-d5 with
triethoxyvinylsilane is carried out in presence of
RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3 as the catalyst at 50C for 15 h (0%
conversion), Eq. (9).[20b] Even though the CH/olefin
coupling reaction does not proceed at all under these
reaction conditions, H/D scrambling among the two
ortho positions of the ketone and the three vinylic
positions of the olefin takes place to some extent. These
results indicate that a rapid equilibrium exists prior to
the reductive elimination step leading to CC bond
formation. These results indicate that the CH bond
cleavage step is quite facial and that the later step of the
catalytic cycle is rate-determining. The studies of 13C
KIE for this coupling reaction also provide support that
the reductive elimination step is rate-determining.[28]
Thus, Murai×s experimental results are consistent with
Morokuma×s theoretical calculation.[27]
9
Brookhart found another important phenomenon for
the chelation-assisted CH/olefin couplings.[29] In the
Figure 1. Site-selective alkylation controlled by a steric con-
gestion.
Scheme 1. Possible reaction pathways for the CH bond
cleavage step.
Figure 2. Effect of the substituents toward the site-selectivity.
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1080
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
case of the reaction of acetophenones with olefins such
as trimethylvinylsilane using Cp*Rh(C2H3SiMe3)2 as a
catalyst, the CH bond cleavage proceeds without the
coordination of the carbonyl group to the rhodium. By
means of deuterium labeling experiments, they revealed
that each CH bond at the aromatic ring added to the
ruthenium atom. These results indicate that the CH
bond cleavage occurs without the coordination of the
ketone carbonyl group. Interestingly, however, the CC
bond formation occurred only at the ortho position. This
result suggests that in the CC bond formation step the
coordination
of
the
carbonyl
group
is
essential
(Scheme 2). Brookhart×s observations provide a signifi-
cant working hypothesis for developing new types of
CH/olefin coupling reactions.
Several related examples of transition metal-cata-
lyzed addition of CH bonds in ketones to olefins have
been reported.[3034] Application of CH/olefin coupling
to polymer chemistry has been reported by Weber×s
group.[30] They prepared a variety of polymers by
reactions of aromatic ketones having two free ortho
CH bonds with ,-dienes such as 1,1,3,3-tetramethyl-
1,3-divinyldisiloxane with the aid of RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3
complex as a catalyst, Eq. (10). The fact that this step
growth polymerization gives higher molecular weight
polymers implies that each step proceeds virtually
quantitatively. In particular, acetophenones having an
electron-donating group, e.g., methoxy and amino
groups, exhibit higher reactivities. Woodgate applied
the RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3-catalyzed coupling of aromatic
ketones with olefins to the alkylation of aromatic
diterpenoids.[31] The alkylation of phenyl 3-pyridyl
ketone proceeds with the aid of RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3 as
catalyst.[32] The alkylation selectively proceeds at the
pyridine ring. Chaudret prepared a reactive ruthenium
complex, RuH2(H2)(CO)(PCy3)2, and examined the
catalytic activity of the complex in a reaction of
benzophenonewith ethylene.[33] The desired CH/olefin
coupling reaction giving the bis(alkylation) product
proceeded at room temperature and up to 19 turnover
numbers were achieved in 48 h, Eq. (11). Leitner sub-
sequently reported the similar room-temperature CH/
olefin coupling reaction using Chaudret×s catalyst.[34]
Several attempts have been made to understand the
mechanism and the intermediate involved in the cata-
lytic reaction. Trost reported that the catalytic active
species does not contain a CO ligand because the
RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3-catalyzed CH/olefin coupling reac-
tion is strongly inhibited under a CO atmosphere.[35]
Whittlesey prepared some ortho metalated complexes
by the reaction of Ru(H2)H2(PPh3)3 with
aceto-
phenone.[36] Among the complexes, the most likely ortho
metalated complex RuH(o-C6H4C(O)CH3)(CO)(PPh3)2
(4) (Figure 3) showed essentially no catalytic activity.
10
11
Chaudret prepared a PCy3 analogue of the ortho
metalated complex, RuH(o-C6H4C(O)CH3)(CO)(PCy3)2
(5) (Figure 3), and observed that the complex does
not show any reactivity for the CH/olefin coupling
reaction.[33] They also concluded that the ruthenium
complex having a CO ligand is not the intermediate in
the catalytic reaction, similar to Trost×s proposal. The
authors of this review are skeptical about this discussion
because
several
ruthenium
complexes,
including
RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3, are known to be converted to
Ru(CO)3(PPh3)2 under an atmosphere of carbon monox-
ide,[37] which was reported by Murai to be a poor catalyst
for the CH/olefin coupling.[8,20b] Fogg reported an ortho
metalated
ruthenium
complex,
RuH(o-C6H4C(O)-
Ph(CO)(dcypb) (6) [dcypb  Cy2P(CH2)4PCy2], which
was prepared by a reaction of RuH2(dcypb)(CO) with
benzophenone (Figure 3).[38] In this complex, the hy-
dride ligand is bound at the apical position. This
stereochemistry is different from those of Whittlesey×s
and Chaudret×s complexes. Fogg examined the catalytic
activity of 6 for the reaction of aromatic ketones
with olefin. However, 6 did not exhibit catalytic ac-
tivity.
Hiraki
reported
an
NMR
study
of
the
RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3-catalyzed CH/olefin coupling.[39]
In this study, they found that several ruthenium-hydride
species were present during the catalytic reaction on the
basis of 1H and 31P NMR spectroscopy. They concluded
that the carbonyl ligand is bound to the ruthenium
Scheme 2. Coordination of carbonyl group prior to the
reductive elimination.
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1081
throughout the catalytic reaction. However,they did not
isolate the corresponding complexes like 4 ± 6. They
discussed the reaction mechanism only on the basis of
the NMR studies. Weber synthesized a zero-valent
ruthenium complex, Ru(o-vinylacetophenone)(CO)-
(PPh3)2 (7) (Figure 3).[40] Interestingly, this complex
has catalytic activity for the co-polymerization of aceto-
phenone with 1,3-divinyltetramethyldisiloxane, although
it has a CO ligand. The studies mentioned above indicate
that the relation between the structures of the catalyst
precursor and the catalyst activity is currently poorly
understood and it is premature to conclude that the
presence of a CO ligand on the ruthenium center retards
catalytic activity.[40] Further studies to elucidate the
structure of the actual active species should be awaited.
Chelation-assisted CH/olefin coupling is also appli-
cable to aromatic esters.[21] In the case of aromatic esters,
electron-withdrawing groups such as CF3 and CN groups
facilitate the CH/olefin coupling reaction, Eq. (12). In
this alkylation, trimethylvinylsilane showed a higher
reactivity (100% yield for 1 h) than triethoxyvinylsilane
(97% yield for 24 h). The use of an amide group is also
effective for the regioselective alkylation. Togni report-
ed that the addition of a CH bond of benzamide to
norbornene takes place in the presence of an Ir(Cp)(R)-
biphemp complex [biphemp  2,2-bis(diphenylphos-
phino)-6,6-dimethyl-1,1-biphenyl], Eq. (13).[41] This re-
action gives the optically active alkylation product in
moderate yields with high enantiomer excess.
13
For the alkylation of aromatic aldehydes and conjugated
enals with olefins using the RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3 catalyst, a
sterically bulky substituent on the ortho position or a
heteroatom at the  position of the enals is essential for
the reaction to proceed catalytically. These substituents
are believed to suppress undesired decarbonylation
reactions by steric or electronic effects, Eqs. (14) and
(15).[22]
14
15
A nitrogen functionality can also function as a directing
group. In the cases of reactions of aromatic imines,
Ru3(CO)12 exhibits a higher catalytic activity than
RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3. Interestingly, the reaction of aro-
matic ketimines derived from acetophenone gave the
corresponding 1:1 coupling product as a single product,
Eq. (16).[23]
16
Lim reported a similar alkylation of aromatic imines
with olefins using the RhCl(coe)2]2/PCy3 catalyst sys-
tem.[42] Later, Jun also reported the RhCl(PPh3)3-
catalyzed coupling of aromatic imines with olefins.[43]
Both aromatic aldimines and ketimines smoothly re-
acted with the olefin to give the corresponding alkyla-
tion products. Interestingly, in the case of aromatic
ketimines, the 1:1 coupling product is obtained as a
single isomer. On the other hand, in the case of the
reaction of the hydrazone derived from acetophenone,
the corresponding 1:1 and 1:2 coupling products are
Figure 3. Plausible intermediates of CH/olefin coupling.
12
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1082
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
obtained,[25] although the reactions of aromatic keti-
mines do not give the 1:2 coupling products. Steric
repulsion between the methyl group in the imine moiety
and the alkyl group at the ortho position does not appear
to be important for product selectivity.
The sp2 nitrogen in a pyridine ring can also function as
a directing functionality. The alkylation reaction of 2-
arylpyridines is catalyzed by rhodium catalysts.[44] In-
troduction of a methyl group at the 3-position of the
pyridyl ring suppresses the incorporation of the second
olefin into another ortho CH bond. For the alkylation
of 3-methyl-2-phenylpyridine, the cone angles of the
phosphine ligands largely affect reactivity rather than
electronic factors, Eq. (17).[42b] The pyridyl group-di-
rected CH/olefin coupling can be extended to atrop-
selective alkylation.[45] The coupling of 2-(1-naphthyl)-
3-methylpyridine with ethylene using [RhCl(coe)2]2/(R),
(S)-PPFOMe as catalyst {(R),(S)-PPFOMe(R)-1-[(S)-
2-diphenylphophino]ferrocenyl)ethyl
methyl
ether}
gives the alkylation product in 37% yield with 49% ee.
17
Murai reported that olefinic CH bonds in conjugated
enones can add across C/C double bonds with the aid of
the RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3 catalyst, Eq. (18).[20c, g] Among
the acylcyclohexenes investigated, 1-pivaloyl-1-cyclo-
hexene exhibits a high reactivity and the presence of an
oxygen atom at the allylic position in the 6-membered
ring increases the reactivity of the enones. Some
terminal olefins, e.g., triethoxyvinylsilane, allyltrime-
thylsilane, methyl methacrylate, and vinylcyclohexane,
are applicable to this reaction. Acyclic enones are also
effective for this CH/olefin coupling.[20 g]
Trost reported on a similar coupling reaction of a
conjugated ester with olefins using RuH2(CO)(PPh3)3,
Eq. (19).[35] Both cyclic and acyclic conjugated esters can
be applied to the coupling reaction. This coupling
reaction tolerates various functional groups on the ester
moiety.
19
The rhodium-catalyzed alkylation of 2-isopropenylpyr-
idine gives the addition product, in which the stereo-
chemistry around the double bond is inverted with
respect to the thermodynamically favorable E-isomer,
Eq. (20).[46] This olefinic CH/olefin coupling can be
applied to several substrates. The reaction of 2-vinyl-
pyridines with 1,-dienes results in a double CH/olefin
coupling reaction affording carbocycles with good
efficiency, albeit in low-product selectivity.[46c] Murai
found that intramolecular CH/olefin coupling pro-
vides a new entry to the carbocyclic compounds.[47] The
cyclization of 1-methyl-2-octa-1,5-dienyl-1H-imidazole
giving a 5-membered carbocycle is catalyzed by a
ruthenium or a rhodium complex, Eq. (21). A pyridyl
group is also effective as a directing group for this type of
cyclization of 1,-dienes. Deuterium labeling experi-
ments indicate that this reaction proceeds via a direct
CH bond cleavage pathway and that the reductive
elimination step is rate-determining. This cyclization
reaction proceeds in an asymmetric fashion.[47b] When
the reaction is conducted in the presence of a mono-
dentate chiral ferrocenylphosphine and [RhCl(coe)2]2,
enantiomerically enriched carbocycles are obtained.[47b]
In the case of the reaction of an imidazolyldiene, the
product is obtained in 75% chemical yield with 82% ee
at 50C, Eq. (21). Ellman and Bergman recently re-
ported on a similar intramolecular cyclization reac-
tion.[48] The conversion of N-alkenylbenzimidazoles
yielding
carbocycles
proceeded
with
the
aid
of
[RhCl(coe)2]2 and PCy3, Eq. (22). They proposed that
the N-heterocyclic carbene complex may participate in
this cyclization as an intermediate and theoretical
calculations supported the intermediacy of this carbene
complex.[48c] An imino group is also effective as a
directing group for the intramolecular cyclization,
giving carbocycles.[48b] The intramolecular cyclization
reactions described above provide new routes for the
synthesis of carbocycles. The CH bond in the CHN
moiety in five-membered heteroaromatic compounds
such as thiazoles, benzimidazoles, and -oxazoles also
adds to C/C double bonds, Eq. (23).[49] The use of Lewis
acids such as lutidium chloride and MgBr2 dramatically
increases the efficiency of the reaction, although the role
of the Lewis acids employed is not clear.
20
18
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1083
21
22
23
Dimerization of acrylonitrile is a cheaper way to
synthesize
highly
valuable
hexamethylenediamine
which is one component of the starting materials for
Nylon-6,6.[50,51] In some cases of the dimerizations of
acrylic acid esters, acrylonitriles, and acroleins, a direct
CH bond cleavage step is believed to be involved in the
catalytic reaction. At the early stage of the catalytic
dimerization of acrylonitrile, cis-1,4-dicyanobut-1-ene is
formed as the major product, not the trans-isomer.[50,51]
It has been proposed that this high cis-selectivity
indicates the selective cleavage of the CH bond cis to
CN by the metal coordinated to nitrile group with a side-
on fashion.[52] However, the participation of -bonded
nitrile is still disputable because several possible reac-
tion pathways exist. The ruthenium-catalyzed alkylation
of benzonitriles with triethoxyvinylsilane proceeds at
the ortho position predominantly, Eq. (24).[26] This
regioselectivity indicates the possibility of -coordina-
tion of the CN group to the ruthenium in the catalytic
cycle.
24
Catalytic CC bond formation via sp3 CH bond
cleavage is the ultimate reaction in organic synthesis.
A relatively ideal catalytic reaction system involves the
use of sp3 CH bonds adjacent to a heteroatom such as
nitrogen and oxygen. Early examples using tungsten or
iridium
complexes
have
already
been
mentioned
above.[15,16] Recently, Jun succeeded in the Ru3(CO)12-
catalyzed alkylation of an sp3 CH bond  to the
nitrogen atom in benzyl(3-methylpyridin-2-yl)amine by
means of chelation assistance, Eq. (25).[53] In this case,
the coordination of the pyridine nitrogen to the
ruthenium complex followed by the CH bond cleav-
age, which allows the formation of a five-membered
ruthenacycle, was proposed to be important in this
catalytic reaction. Murai also reported on the rutheni-
um-catalyzed coupling of 2-N-pyridyldialkylamines,
Eq. (26).[54] The use of 2-propanol as a solvent dramat-
ically improves the yield of the product. The reaction is
not limited to a benzylic system when 2-propanol is used
as a solvent.
25
26
Transition metal-catalyzed annulation reactions of ani-
lines with tertiary amines is another protocol for the
catalytic functionalization of sp3 CH bonds, Eq. (27).
Recently, several reaction systems resulting in the
formation of heteroaromatic compounds which are
modifications of the preceding annulation reaction
using aniline and ethylene with the aid of rhodium
catalyst have been developed.[55] An intramolecular
version of this quinoline synthesis using o-allylanilines
and Co2(CO)8 catalyst has also been demonstrated by
Jones.[56]
27
Some other types of CH/olefin coupling reactions have
also been reported. The reaction of phenols with
norbornenes using [IrCl((R)-(S)-PPFPPh2)]2 {(R)-(S)-
PPFPPh2  (R)-1-[(S)-2-(diphenylphosphino)ferroce-
nyl]ethyldiphenylphosphine} gives the corresponding
ortho alkylation products, Eq. (28).[57] Miura found that
the reaction of phenylboronic acid with excess amounts
of norbornene using [RhCl(cod)]2/DPPP [DPPP  1,2-
28
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1084
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
bis(diphenylphophino)propane] as catalyst results in
multiple substitution with norbornene on aromatics in
high yield (Scheme 3).[58] The important step in this
multiple alkylation involves cyclometalation via CH
bond cleavage followed by the reductive elimination of
the CH bond giving an (aryl)rhodium intermediate.
Obviously, non-chelation-assisted CH/olefin cou-
plings are more ideal than chelation-assisted ones.
Recently, the alkylation of benzene with olefins has been
accomplished with the aid of [Ir(-acac-O,O©,C3)(acac-
O,O©)(acac-C3)]2, Eq. (29). Although interesting, the
reaction does not overcome the regioselectivity. Thus,
the reaction of substituted arenes with olefins provides a
mixture of regioisomers.[59] For example, the reaction of
toluene with ethylene affords m- and p-isomers in 63%
and 37% selectivity, respectively.
29
2.2 Addition of CH Bonds to C/C Triple Bonds
Substituted styrenes and vinylic compounds are versa-
tile intermediates in organic synthesis, and various
methods for accomplishing this have been published in
the literature.[9,60,61] Among the catalytic approaches,
transition metal-catalyzed coupling reactions using
organometallic reagents[62] and dehydrohalogenative
vinylation reactions between organic halides and olefins
(the so-called Mizoroki±Heck reaction)[63,64] are fre-
quently used to obtain the desired compounds. For these
reactions, however, the use of a CX (e.g., X  halogen,
triflate) bond is required for producing CC bonds. If
the direct addition of an otherwise unreactive CH
bond to acetylenes takes place, the method promises to
become one of the simplest methods for the preparation
of vinylic compounds with 100% atom efficiency. In this
section, we will describe the transition metal-catalyzed
vinylation of aromatic compounds using acetylenes.
The pioneering work on a coupling of aromatic and
heteroaromatic compounds with acetylenes has been
reported by Yamazaki.[11b,65] Reaction of benzene with
diphenylacetylene gives triphenylethene in 45% yield
based on the acetylene employed. The presence of
carbon monoxide is an essential factor in accomplishing
this coupling in a catalytic fashion. In the case of the
monosubstituted benzene, the low regioselectivity is an
inevitable problem. The reaction of toluene gives a
mixture of o-, m-, and p-isomers in a ratio of 6:65:29,
Eq. (30). Heteroaromatic compounds, such as furan,
thiophene and N-methylpyrrole, are also applicable to
this vinylation reaction, giving the corresponding cou-
pling products in 80%, 48%, and 31% yields, respecti-
vely.[11b,66] The order of the relative reactivities of these
compounds
are
estimated
as
follows:
furan 
thiophene  N-methylpyrrole  benzene.
30
The addition of CH bonds in azobenzenes to di-
phenylacetylene
is
catalyzed
by
CoH(N2)(PPh3)3,
CoH3(PPh3)3, or RhCl(PPh3)3.[67] When RhCl(PPh3)3 is
used as the catalyst, this coupling reaction gives 1-
(arylamino)indole in good yields, Eq. (31). Electron-
withdrawing groups on the acetylene retard the coupling
reaction. On the basis of this result, it was proposed that
the CH bond cleavage step is rate-determining. There
are several alternative mechanisms and these wait
further studies.
Scheme 3. Plausible pathway for the multi alkylation via 1,4-rhodium shift.
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1085
31
Methodology in which the directing group promotes the
regioselective cleavage of CH bonds is applicable to
the addition of aromatic CH bonds in aromatic ketones
to acetylenes, Eq. (32).[68] When trimethylsilyl-substi-
tuted acetylenes are employed in the reaction, the
desired coupling products are obtained with high
regioselectivity in excellent yields.[68a] In the case of
the reaction with 1-trimethylsilylpropyne, the regio- and
stereochemical outcome is perfect. The E-isomer is the
predominant product. These results indicate that the
addition of CH bonds to the C/C triple bond proceeds
with syn selectivity. This CH/olefin coupling is appli-
cable to conjugated enones, and highly substituted
dienes are obtained in high yields with a high stereo-
selectivity.[68b] Miura reported regioselective alkenyla-
tion of 1-naphthols with alkynes.[69] In this case, the CC
bond formation takes place exclusively at the peri
position (8 position).
32
Extensive reactions of ruthenium-catalyzed CH/ace-
tylene coupling have been studied with respect to the
step growth copolymerization of aromatic ketones and
acetylenes, resulting in the formation of cross-conju-
gated polymers, copoly(arylene/1,2-vinylene)backbone,
Eq. (33),[70] which have received considerable attention
because of their potential utility in a number of
applications such as light emitting diodes.[71] Woodgate
demonstrated a similar alkenylation reaction of diter-
penoid analogues with acetylenes.[72] The regio- and
stereoselectivities are nearly the same as that in the
reaction of Eq. (32). Lim reported that the reaction of 2-
phenylpyridines
with
internal
acetylenes
using
RhCl(PPh3)3 catalyst also gives ortho alkenylation
products in high yields.[73]
33
Quite recently, the iridium-catalyzed addition of sp3
CH bond adjacent to the imino nitrogen to acetylenes
was reported by Ishii, Eq. (34).[74] Terminal acetylenes
can be used for this reaction. Carbon-carbon bond
formation takes place at the internal carbon atom of the
acetylene moiety.
34
When the rhodium-catalyzed coupling of phenylboronic
acid with internal acetylenes is performed, a unique
alkenylation reaction involving a 1,4-shift of rhodium,
i.e., the isomerization of 2-aryl-1-alkenylrhodium to 2-
alkenylarylrhodium, takes place (Scheme 4).[75a] This
unique 1,4-shift of rhodium is supported by deuterium
Scheme 4. A Plausible pathway for the alkenylation of the aromatic CH bond via 1,4-rhodium shift.
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1086
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
labeling experiments. Previously, Miura has already
reported a similar 1,4-shift of rhodium in multialkyla-
tion of aromatic ring with norbornene (see Scheme 3).[58]
Although not unprecedented, Larock found that a
unique 1,4-shift of palladium takes place in the palla-
dium-catalyzed reaction 2-iodo-4-methylbiaryl with
ethyl acrylate.[75b]
Another approach to the alkenylation of aromatic
compounds involves the electrophilic substitution of
arenes with transition metal salts such as Pd(OAc)2 and
PtCl2. One of the most significant advances in the
catalytic addition of CH bonds to C/C triple bonds was
achieved by Fujiwara, Eq. (35).[76] Various arenes react
with both terminal and internal acetylenes to give the
corresponding trans hydroarylation products in high
yields. It is noteworthy that this coupling reaction occurs
at room temperature. The stereoselectivity and efficien-
cy of this coupling reaction are sufficiently high to merit
its use as a tool in organic synthesis. When arenes having
an acetylene moiety are exposed to the reaction
conditions, intramolecular cyclization takes place selec-
tively. For example, in the case of aryl alkynoates,
coumarins are obtained in high yields, Eq. (36).[76ce]
35
36
2.3 Oxidative Coupling of Arenes with Olefins via
Electrophilic Substitution by Transition Metal
Complexes
The alkenylation of arenes with olefins via CH bond
cleavage is the most highly valuable procedure for the
preparation of styrene derivatives. The first example of
this type of coupling reaction was reported in 1967.[77]
Later, several efforts have been made to perform this
reaction in a catalytic manner.[78] Recently, remarkable
advances appeared with respect to the transition metal-
catalyzed oxidative coupling of arenes with olefins.
Mikami reported the asymmetric coupling reaction of
benzene with cyclohexenecarbonitrile in the presence of
Pd(OAc)2, tert-butyl perbenzoate as an oxidant, and a
chiral oxazoline ligand.[79] This reaction gives 6-phenyl-
1-cyclohexenecarbonitrile. Chiral induction arises at the
6-position of the cyclohexene ring. The chemical and
optical yields are moderate, but this is a prospective
procedure for making CC bonds in an enantioselective
fashion, Eq. (37). Fujiwara achieved the highly efficient
palladium-catalyzed addition of arenes to electron-
deficient olefins with the aid of benzoquinone and tert-
butyl hydrogen peroxide as an oxidant, Eq. (38).[80] In
this case, CC bond formation took place selectively at
the position  to the electron-withdrawing groups. A
similar reaction was reported using heteropolyoxome-
talate and oxygen as a reoxidation reagent by Ishii.[81] In
these cases, the control of regioselectivity is substantial.
The use of chelation-assistance with the amide group
improved the regioselectivity. The Pd(OAc)2-catalyzed
reaction of N-acetylanilides with acrylic esters conduct-
ed at room temperature using benzoquinone as an
oxidant gives the alkenylated product in good to high
yields. This observation suggests that chelation-assis-
tance is also effective in electrophilic CH bond
cleavage, Eq. (39).[82] Alkenylations of arenes using
rhodium[83] or ruthenium catalysts[84] have also been
demonstrated by several research groups.
37
38
39
2.4 Coupling of CH Bonds, Carbon Monoxide, and
Olefins
There are two categories that involve the direct carbon-
ylation of CH bonds. One is CH/CO coupling, and the
other is CH/CO/olefin coupling. Since the former
reaction leading to aldehydes is endothermic, the
reaction should ideally be conducted under photo-
irradiation conditions.[85] On the other hand, the CH/
CO/olefin coupling reaction leading to ketones can
proceed under thermal reaction conditions, because it is
exothermic. The photo-assisted carbonylation reaction
of CH bonds will not be dealt with in this review, since
there are several leading review articles.[4]
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1087
Yamazaki reported the first example of a three-
component coupling reaction of CH bonds in arenes,
CO, and olefins using a Rh4(CO)12 catalyst.[12] This
pioneering work reveals that the benzene ring under-
goes acylation with CO and olefins under thermal
reaction conditions, although the efficiency is not high.
In 1992, Moore reported on the highly selective carbon-
ylation of pyridines with the aid of a Ru3(CO)12
catalyst.[7] The reaction of pyridine, CO, and 1-hexene
in the presence of Ru3(CO)12 at 150C gives -acylated
pyridines, Eq. (40). A number of olefins can be used in
this system. Terminal olefins, as small as ethylene and as
large as 1-eicosene, afforded the corresponding linear
pyridyl ketones as the major products.
40
Murai and coworkers reports that the carbonylation of
imidazole derivatives using several olefins takes place in
high yields with the aid of a Ru3(CO)12 catalyst,
Eq. (41).[86] Carbon-carbon bond formation occurs ex-
clusively at the position  to the sp2 nitrogen. A wide
range of olefins can be utilized in this reaction, and a
variety of functional groups are compatible under the
reaction conditions, indicating that CH bond activa-
tion reactions are now on a satisfactory level in organic
synthesis. The (-H)triruthenium clusters 8, as shown in
Scheme 5, are proposed as a key species on the basis of
the result in which a triosmium cluster, analogous to
complex 8, is obtained by a stoichiometric reaction of
Os3(CO)10(CH3CN)2 with 2-methylimidazole.[87] Other
five-membered N-heteroaromatic compounds, such as
pyrazoles, oxazoles, and thiazoles, can also be used for
the carbonylation, and in all cases, carbonylation takes
place exclusively at a CH bond  to the sp2 nitrogen.
The reactivity of the five-membered heterocycles cor-
responds to the pKa values of the conjugate acid of these
heterocycles. The higher the pKa of the substrate, the
higher is the reactivity. This result also indicates that
the coordination of the substrates by the sp2 nitrogen
to the ruthenium center is essential for the reaction to
proceed.
41
Carbonylation at a CH bond  to the sp2 ring nitrogen is
also achieved by Ru3(CO)12 catalyst.[88] The Ru3(CO)12-
catalyzed reaction of 1,2-dimethylbenzimidazole with
olefin and CO provides the corresponding  acylated
product in high yield, Eq. (42).
42
When the reaction of phenylpyridine with CO (20 atm)
and ethylene is conducted at 160C, the ortho CH bond
( to the sp2 nitrogen) in the benzene ring undergoes
carbonylation, Eq. (43).[89] In this reaction, a CH bond
in the pyridine ring is completely unreactive. In the
reaction of m-substituted substrates, such as those
having Me, OMe, CF3, and COOMe, carbonylation
takes place exclusively at the less hindered CH bond,
irrespective of the electronic nature of the substituents.
An oxazoline ring instead of a pyridine ring is also an
effective directing group for the  selective carbon-
ylation of the benzene ring.[90] The reaction of aromatic
aldimine gives indenones via carbonylation reaction at
the ortho CH bond followed by intramolecular aldol-
type condensation, Eq. (44).[91]
43
44
The carbonylation of a CH bond at the position  to the
sp2 nitrogen proceeds with the aid of Ru3(CO)12 as
catalyst, Eq. (45).[92] The reactivity appears to be
sensitive to the polarity of the solvent. The choice of
N,N-dimethylacetamide as the solvent is crucial for the
reaction to proceed efficiently.
Scheme 5. A plausible intermediate.
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1088
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
45
The acylation of the sp3 CH bond adjacent to a nitrogen
atom can be attained by means of chelation-assisted
CH bond cleavage, Eq. (46).[93] The [RhCl(cod)]2
complex is superior as a catalyst and 2-propanol is the
solvent of the choice. While cyclic amines exhibit a high
reactivity (up to 84%
), acyclic amines show relatively
low reactivity (18%
). Although the scope of this reaction
is limited, this carbonylation protocol expands the scope
of carbonylation reactions. The use of Ru3(CO)12 as a
catalyst does not result in a carbonylation reaction, but
instead the addition of the sp3 CH bond across the
olefin bond to give an alkylation product, even when the
reaction is carried out under CO pressure.[94]
46
The reaction of N-(2-pyridinyl)piperazines with CO and
ethylene in the presence of a catalytic amount of
Rh4(CO)12 in toluene at 160C results in a novel type
of carbonylation reaction, which involves dehydrogen-
ation and carbonylation at a CH bond, Eq. (47).[95] The
presence of an additional nitrogen functionality at the 4-
position of the piperazine ring is essential for the
reaction to proceed. The substitution of both an
electron-donating group on the 4-nitrogen and an
electron-withdrawing group, e.g., 5-COOMe, 4-COOMe,
and 5-CF3, on the pyridine ring causes a significant
increase in reactivity. It was found that the reaction
involves two discrete reactions: i) dehydrogenation of
the piperazine ring leading to 10 and ii) carbonylation at
a CH bond in the resulting olefin 10. Interestingly,
Ru3(CO)12 is ineffective for the carbonylation of 9, but
effective for the carbonylation of 10 or N-(2-pyridin-
yl)enamines.[96] In place of the pyridyl group, an acyl
group can also serve as a directing group for carbon-
ylation at an  CH bond, Eq. (48).[97] This is the first
example of a carbonylation at a CH bond which is
directed by a functional group other than a CN moiety.
48
Several high-throughput protocols for examining opti-
mal reaction conditions and applicable substrates have
recently been reported. A mass spectrometric labeling
strategy is now popular as a rapid screening method to
evaluate many substrates. The method can be applied to
the direct carbonylation of CH bonds in N-heterocyclic
compounds (Scheme 6).[98]
The three-component coupling reaction of a CH
bond, carbon monoxide, and olefins leading to ketones
is applicable to a number of N-heterocyclic compounds.
The carbonylation at sp2 CH bonds reported thus far
can be classified into four types, depending on the
position where the carbonylation takes place; , , , and
 to the sp2 nitrogen atom. Carbonylation at an sp3 CH
bond adjacent to a nitrogen atom has also been
developed. These methods have already become new
synthetic tools for catalytic acylation.
2.5 Catalytic Arylation of CH Bonds
Catalytic arylation via CH bond cleavage is a subject of
intense interest.[99] Pioneering work in this area was
originally reported by Chiusoli in 1985.[100] The reaction
of bromobenzene with norbornene gives hexahydrome-
thanotriphenylenes, Eq. (49). The biaryl framework is
formed via CH bond cleavage. Later de Meijer also
reported on a similar coupling reaction of aryl halides
with norbornene, to give the multiple arylation prod-
uct.[101] One of the highly important advances in this area
is the palladium-catalyzed arylation of 2-phenylphenols
and naphthols, Eq. (50).[102] The formation of an (ar-
yl)(aryloxy)palladium(II) intermediate is crucial to
accomplishing this arylation reaction. Very recently,
the RhCl(PPh3)3-catalyzed arylation of phenols with
aryl halides in the presence of phosphinites [PR2(OAr)]
has been reported, Eq. (51). [103] The significant point of
this reaction is the use of phosphinite as a co-catalyst.
The phosphorus atom coordinates to the rhodium atom,
then electrophilic substitution with the rhodium(III)
species occurs at the ortho position.
47
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1089
49
50
51
The palladium-catalyzed arylations of aromatic carbon-
yl compounds such as ketones,[104] amides,[105] and
aldehydes[106] with aryl halides lead to the multiple
arylation products (Scheme 7). A plausible pathway is
as follows: an anion exchange between the amido anion
(or enolate) and triflate (or halide) ion in the Ar-Pd-X
species leads to the (aryl)(alkoxy)palladium intermedi-
ate 11; electrophilic palladation on the aromatic ring
gives the Ar-Pd-Ar× intermediate 12; the reductive
elimination affords the diaryl compounds.
A unique multiphenylation accompanied by formal
decarbamoylation takes place where the reaction of
secondary 2-thiophenecarboxamides with bromoben-
zene is conducted in the presence of Pd(OAc)2 and a
bulkyl phosphine [P(o-biphenyl)(t-Bu)2], Eq. (52).[107]
Interestingly, when the reaction of 3-carboethoxyfuran
with an aryl bromideis examined,the arylationproceeds
selectively at the 2-position and the ester moiety is
retained in the product.[108] The arylation of thiazole
with aryl iodide occurs at the 2-position with the aid of
PdCl2(PPh3)2/CuI as catalyst.[109] Tetrabutylammonium
fluoride improves the activity of the catalyst.
52
The ruthenium(II)-phosphine complex exhibits a high
catalytic activity for the regioselective arylation of 2-
arylpyridines using aryl halides, Eq. (53).[110] The CC
bond formation occurs at the position ortho to the
Scheme 7. Plausible pathway for the arylation of benzanilides.
Scheme 6. High-throughput reaction evaluation and optimization: exploring CH bond activation.
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1090
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
pyridyl group predominantly. The same catalyst system
is also effective for the arylation of aromatic imines.[111]
The authors proposed that the tetravalent arylrutheni-
um complex reacts electrophilically with the arylimines.
Therefore, CH bond cleavage proceeds via an electro-
philic substitution pathway.
53
Dyker reported on the intramolecular arylation of CH
bonds.[112] In this case, 1-tert-butyl-2-iodobenzene is
reacted under palladium catalysis to give the 1,2-
dihydrocyclobutabenzene derivative in 75% yield,
Eq. (54). They proposed that this catalytic cycle is
initiated by the oxidative addition of ArI to Pd(0) to give
an Ar-Pd-I species, then electrophilic substitution at the
sp3 CH bond with the Pd(II) species results in the
formation of the cyclopalladation complex. To this
Pd(II) species, another molecule of ArI oxidatively
adds, giving the Pd(IV) complex.
54
There are new entries to the catalytic arylation of
aromatic compounds. The utilization of organometallic
reagents as an arylating agent is another protocol. Oi
reported on the rhodium-catalyzed arylation of arylpyr-
idines using tetraarylstannanes, Eq. (55).[113] This reac-
tion required the use of 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane as a
solvent for attaining a high catalyst activity. Very
recently, Kakiuchi found that the ruthenium-catalyzed
coupling reaction of aromatic ketones with arylboro-
nates providing the ortho arylated aromatic ketones,
Eq. (56).[114] This arylation can be applied to several
combinations of aromatic ketones and arylboronates.
55
56
The catalytic arylation and alkenylation of alkane
segments has been developed, Eq. (57).[115] In this
reaction, Ph2Si(OH)Me shows a high reactivity. The
Pd(OAc)2-catalyzed phenylation of a tert-butyl group in
an aromatic Schiff base with the diphenylsilanol pro-
ceeded in good yield. The applicability is relatively
limited, but this is a rare example of CC bond
formation using an sp3 CH bond.
57
3 Catalytic Dehydrogenation of Alkanes
Since various types of functional groups can be made by
transformations of C/C double bonds, a large number of
methods for the preparation of a C/C double bond have
been reported.[9,66,67] The simplest way is the direct
dehydrogenation of alkanes giving alkenes with the aid
of transition metal-catalysts. This reaction is highly
valuable, but only a limited number of studies has
appeared in the literature. In this section, transition
metal-catalyzed dehydrogenations of alkanes yielding
alkenes will be described.
In 1979, Crabtree demonstrated the dehyrogenation
of alkanes using a stoichiometic amount of an iridium-
phosphine complex.[116] Several years later, dehydrogen-
ation reactions of alkanes were conducted in the
presence of a hydrogen acceptor, i.e., an alkene, because
the
thermally
disfavored
alkane
dehydrogenation
(G  ca. 20 kcal/mol)[117] becomes thermally much
more favorable (G  ca. 0 kcal/mol) compared with
hydrogen acceptor-less conditions by combining hydro-
gen transfer reactions. The first example with respect to
the catalytic dehydrogenation of an alkane under
thermal conditions was reported by Baudry using a
homogeneous rhenium catalyst.[118] The rhenium poly-
hydride complex is effective for the dehydrogenation of
cycloalkanes with the aid of tert-butylethylene as a
hydrogen acceptor. The turnover number in this system
is only 9, but this result indicates the possibility of alkane
dehydrogenation by a soluble transition metal catalyst
under thermal reaction conditions, Eq. (58). Some other
transition metal polyhydride complexes also have show
catalytic activities for the alkane dehydrogenation.
Among several iridium complexes, e.g., [IrH5(iPr3P)2],
[IrH5((p-FC6H4)3P)2], and [RuH4((p-FC6H4)3P)3], the
iridium polyhydride complex having isopropylphos-
phine shows the highest catalytic activities (23 TON/
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1091
3 h). This protocol has been rapidly applied to various
catalytic systems. Crabtree re-examined their previous-
ly reported reactions and found that the dehydrogen-
ation of cyclooctane takes place in a catalytic man-
ner.[119]
58
Other types of thermal catalytic alkane dehydrogen-
ation using a hydrogen acceptor have been reported by
several research groups.[119±126] A variety of iridium
complexes, e.g., [IrH2(acetone)2P(p-FC6H4)3]SbF6,[119]
IrH5(PiPr3)2,[120,121]
[IrH2(CF3CO2)(p-FC6H4)2],[122,123]
and [IrH2(	3-C6H3(CH2PtBu2)2-2,6)],[124] can catalyze
the dehydrogenation of cycloalkanes giving cycloal-
kenes in the presence of tert-butylethylene as the
hydrogen acceptor, Eq. (59). An analogous iridium
complex, [IrH2(acetone)2PPh3]SbF6,[125] catalyzes the
selective dehydrogenation of cyclohexenes to arenes.
In this case, the cyclohexenes function as the substrate
and also as the hydrogen acceptor.
59
The highly efficient transfer dehydrogenation of alkanes
has been reported by Goldman.[126] Their catalyst system
is unique. A high pressure (1000 psi) of hydrogen is used
for the dehydrogenation reaction.[126b±d] Under 1000 psi
of H2 at 100C for 15 min, a cyclooctane solution of
RhCl(CO)(PMe3)2 (0.20 mM) and norbornene (1.2 M)
yields 950 turnovers of cyclooctene (0.19 M) and
norbornane (1.2 M), Eq. (60). The proposed mechanism
for this paradoxical catalytic reaction involves the
addition of H2, the loss of CO, and the transfer of
H2
to
a
sacrificial
acceptor,
thereby
generating
RhCl(PMe3)2, which is the same catalytically active
species proposed in the photochemical dehydrogen-
ation of alkanes with RhCl(CO)(PMe3)2 (Scheme 8).
60
In 1990, Saito reported an extremely interesting re-
sult.[127] Their finding was that the endoergonic alkane
dehydrogenation reactions can be driven by the con-
tinuous removal of molecular hydrogen in the refluxing
process, Eq. (61). They found that the catalytic reaction
of an alkane dehydrogenation under thermal conditions
gives an alkene and molecular hydrogen. The important
factor in this catalyst system is the continuous removal
of molecular hydrogen which is produced by dehydro-
genation of the alkane from the reaction mixture by
refluxing. Therefore, the continuous removal of mo-
lecular hydrogen shifts the equilibrium toward the
product, i.e., the alkene. This simple technique has
been modified by Crabtree.[128] They have assayed the
catalytic activities of a variety of transition metal
catalysts using the modified reflux method published
by Saito×s group.
61
A notable advance has recently been achieved in the
acceptor-less dehydrogenation of alkanes. The transi-
tion metal-catalyzed highly efficient alkane dehydro-
genation proceeds, even in the absence of a sacrificial
hydrogen acceptor, under thermal conditions.[129] The
iridium complex having a 	3-C6H3(PBut
2)2-1,3 (PCP)
ligand efficiently catalyzes the dehydrogenation of
cyclodecane to give cyclodecene, Eq. (62). When the
reaction is carried out at 201C in refluxing cyclodecane,
360 turnover numbers were attained after 24 h. The key
to their success with respect to the high efficiency
observed, appears to be the long-term stability of the Ir-
PCP complexes at very high temperatures.
62
The most attractive recent subject in this area is the
elucidation of the reaction mechanism of the acceptor-
Scheme 8. Plausible catalytic cycle of alkane-dehydrogen-
ation in the presence of dihydrogen.
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1092
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
less thermal dehydrogenation of alkanes by means of ab
initio theoretical calculations.[130,131] Hall predicted that
the acceptor-less dehydrogenation of alkanes using [	3-
2,6-(R2PCH2)2C6H3]IrH2 [abbreviated to (RPCP)IrH2]
proceeds associatively, specifically via the CH oxida-
tive addition of the (RPCP)IrH2 (Figure 4, right pan-
el).[130] On the other hand, Goldman concluded that the
dehydrogenation reaction takes place via the dissocia-
tion of dihydrogen from (RPCP)IrH2, leading to the
(RPCP)Ir (Figure 4, left panel).[131] Goldman×s results
satisfactorily explain the experimental results such as no
H/D exchangebetween the hydrogen in (RPCP)IrH2 and
cyclohexane-d12. Although the actual reaction mecha-
nism is still controversial, both studies provide an
important consideration in future efforts with respect
to the development of related acceptor-less thermal
dehydrogenation reactions of alkanes.
4 Catalytic Silylation of CH Bonds
Dehydrogenative silylations of arenes and alkanes with
hydrosilane are also a thermally disfavored process. To
accomplish these reactions in a catalytic manner, photo-
irradiation or the co-presence of an efficient hydrogen
acceptor is necessary.
Curtis reported, to the best of our knowledge, the first
example of the dehydrogenative silylation of benzene
with penatamethyldisiloxane using an IrCl(CO)(PPh3)2
catalyst under thermal reaction conditions in the
absence of a hydrogen acceptor.In this case, a prolonged
reaction period (49 days) was required to obtain rela-
tively higher total yields of phenylated products.[132] The
selective silylation of arenes with o-bis(dimethylsilyl)-
benzene is catalyzed by Pt2(dba)3 complex, gives the
monoarylated hydrosilanes in high yields, Eq. (63).[133]
In this case, the bis(silyl)platinum appears to function as
the active catalyst species. A deuterium-labeling experi-
ment using o-bis(deuteriodimethylsilyl)benzene re-
vealed the following results: 1) deuterium remains in
the starting hydrosilane; 2) the newly formed SiH
moiety does not contain deuterium. These observations
indicate that the origin of the hydrogen of the SiH
moiety in the product is benzene. They proposed the
bis(silyl)platina intermediate as the active catalyst
species. In this dehydrogenative silylation, the reactiv-
ities of the arenes decrease in the following order:
anisole  chlorobenzene  benzene  toluene.
63
Berry reported on the self-dehydrogenative silylation of
triethylsilane in the presence of tert-butylethylene as the
hydrogen acceptor using (	5-C5Me5)Rh(H)2(SiEt3)2 as
catalyst.[134] The conversion of the silane is almost
quantitative and the dehydrogenative silylated product
is obtained, Eq. (64). The (	5-C5Me5)Rh(H)2(SiEt3)2
and (	6-C6Me6)Ru(H)2(SiEt3)2 complexes are also ef-
fective for the dehydrogenative silylation of arenes with
triethylsilane, Eq. (65).[135] In this reaction, the carbosi-
lane dimer, Et3SiCH(Me)SiHEt2, is formed in addition
to the arylsilane. In the reaction of ,,-trifluorome-
thyltoluene with triethylsilane, the selectivity of the
desired arylsilane increases as the reaction proceeds.
The carbosilane dimer appears to be the kinetic product
Figure 4. Free Energy (G) profiles for dissociation and association pathways.
64
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1093
and the arylsilane is the thermodynamic product
(Scheme 9).
(65)
The major drawback of the preceding silylation of CH
bonds is their low regioselectivity.[132±135] One of the most
reliable protocols for attaining a high regioselectivity is
the use of chelation-assisted CH bond cleavage, which
is now popular in catalytic reactions involving CH
bond cleavage. This protocol can also be applied to
CH/SiR3 coupling.[136] In the case of the reaction of
aryloxazolines with hydrosilanes, the silylation takes
place exclusively at the position ortho to the oxazoline
ring. As mentioned above, for the dehydrogenative
silylation of CH bond, the use of olefin as a hydrogen
scavenger is required to attain the reaction in catalytic
manner.
Triorganosilanes,
especially
triethylsilane,
show a high reactivity. When the reaction of aryloxazo-
lines with triethylsilane is carried out in the presence of
tert-butylethylene as a hydrogen acceptor with the aid of
Ru3(CO)12 as catalyst, the silylation proceeds at the
position ortho to the oxazoline group, Eq. (66).[136a] The
functional group compatibility of this reaction is high.
This reaction is tolerant to both electron-donating (Me,
OMe, and NMe2) and -withdrawing (CF3 and F) groups.
A variety of functional groups such as ester, amide, and
imino, groups, and sp2 nitrogen in pyridine, imidazole,
pyrazole, triazole, and tetrazole rings can be used as a
directing group (Scheme 10). In nearly all cases, the
corresponding ortho silylation products are obtained in
good to excellent yields.
66
In the chelation-assisted CH/olefin coupling, -con-
jugation between the benzene ring and the directing
group is important. This working hypothesis is support-
ed by experimental results[20b] and theoretical calcula-
tions.[27] Interestingly, however, in the case of CH/SiR3
coupling, -conjugation is not essential. The silylation
reaction of N,N-dimethylbenzylamine with triethylsi-
lane gives the ortho silylation product, Eq. (67).[137]
Some other aromatic compounds in which the directing
group is not conjugated with the benzene ring can be
silylated under the same reaction conditions.[137]
67
Scheme 9. Plausible reaction pathway for the silylation of arenes.
Scheme 10. Silylation of a variety of aromatic and hetero-
aromatic compounds.
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1094
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
Disilanes are also effective as a silylation reagent.
Ishikawa found that the Ni(PEt3)4-catalyzed reaction of
aromatic compounds with 3,4-benzo-1,1,2,2-tetraethyl-
1,2-disilacyclobutene yields the 1-(diethylarylsilyl)-2-
(diethylsilyl)benzene, Eq. (68).[138] The results of deute-
rium-labeling experiments suggest that the o-quinodisi-
lane-nickel complex, which may produce a bis(silyl)-
nickel intermediate, is involved as a key intermediate in
this reaction. Later, a similar intermediate was also
proposed by Tanaka in the platinum-catalyzed silylation
of arenes, Eq. (63).[133] In the case of the reaction of
mesitylene, interestingly, the benzylic CH bond can be
silylated to afford benzodisilacyclobutene, albeit in low
yield (28%
). Platinum(0) complexes are effective as
catalysts for this silylation reaction.
68
The regioselective silylation of aromatic imines with
hexaorganodisilanes proceeds via chelation-assisted
CH bond cleavage by a platinum complex.[139] The
CH bonds undergo the silylation with exclusive ortho
selectivity. In the case of the reaction of an imine having
an electron-withdrawing group at the para position,
silylation products are obtained in high yields, Eq. (69).
Murai reported on a unique system for the dehydro-
genative silylation of heteroaromatic compounds in
which triorganovinylsilane was used as a silylating
reagent.[140] In this reaction, the vinyl moiety functions
as a hydrogen acceptor. Thus, ethylene should be
generated after the reaction. When the reaction of 3-
acetylthiophene with trimethylvinylsilane is conducted
using of Ru3(CO)12 as a catalyst, the silylation occurs at
the 2-position of 3-acetylthiophene, Eq. (70). The im-
portant step of this reaction is a -silyl elimination,
yielding a metal-silyl species.[141] This silylation protocol
using vinylsilanes can be applied only to heteroaromatic
compounds.
69
5 Catalytic Borylation of CH Bonds
Direct borylation of CH bonds is a highly active recent
research subject in the catalytic use of CH bonds.
Hartwig reported the first representative result with
respect to the borylation of CH bonds.[142] A stoichio-
metric amount of transition metal boryl complex reacts
with arenes under photo-irradiation conditions to give
the corresponding arylboron compounds. Subsequently,
they succeeded in the borylation of an sp3 CH bond in
an alkane using Cp*W(CO)2B(OR)2 [(OR)2  1,2-
O2(C6H2-3,5-(CH3)2]
under
photochemical
condi-
tions.[143] The first example of the catalytic version of
the borylation reaction was accomplished in 1999,
Eq. (71).[144]
When the
reaction
of
pentane
with
4,4,4,4,5,5,5,5-octamethyl-2,2-bi-1,3,2-dioxaobolane
(B2pin2) using Cp*Re(CO)3 as catalyst is conducted
under photo-irradiation conditions, CB bond forma-
tion occurs exclusively at the methyl CH bond. The co-
presence of carbon monoxide (2 atm) suppresses the
deactivation of the catalyst. A remarkable advance was
achieved in 2000.[145] Hartwig reported on an ideal
borylation reaction system. The reaction of octane with
B2pin2 using Cp*Rh(	4-C6Me6) as a catalyst, when
conducted at 150C (no photo-irradiation) gives n-
octylborane with perfect regioselectivity in high yield,
Eq. (72). Pinacol-borane (Hbpin) can also be used as a
borylating reagent. Hartwig×s results indicate that a new
research area for alkane functionalization has appa-
rently been created.
71
72
70
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1095
In the case of the borylation of arenes, one encounters
again the inevitable problem of regioselectivity. The
reaction of monosubstituted arenes with hydroboranes
yields a mixture of regioisomers as experienced in the
non-chelation-assisted silylation of arenes.[133,135] When
1,3-disubstitued arenes, e.g., 1,3-dichloro-, 1,3-dibromo-,
and 1,3-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzenes, are used in the
reaction, CB bond formation occurs at the 5-position
selectively, Eq. (73).[146] It is noteworthy that when the
reaction of p-xylene with pinacol-borane is conducted in
the presence of RhCl(PiPr3)2(N2) as a catalyst, boryla-
tion occurs mainly at the benzyl CH bond [run 1 in
Eq. (74)].[146c, 147]
On the
other
hand,
the use
of
Cp*Rh(	4-C6Me6) as a catalyst results in the formation
of a CB bond at the aromatic ring [run 2 in
Eq. (74)].[146b] Very recently, Ishiyama reported that
the presence of 4,4-di-tert-butyl-2,2-pipyridine (dtbpy)
dramatically improves the activity of the iridium catalyst
for aromatic CH/Bpin2 coupling.[148] Five-membered
heteroaromatic compounds are also applicable to the
borylation reaction.[148b] In this case, 2-boryl heteroaro-
matic compounds are obtained exclusively in high yields.
The anion ligand on the iridium center is sensitive to the
activity of the catalyst. The methoxy ligand highly
improves the reactivity of the iridium complex. Indeed,
the borylation proceeds at room temperature with high
efficiency.
73
74
The CH/B(OR)2 coupling will certainly become a
useful tool in organic synthesis because the boryl moiety
can be converted to a hydroxy group by oxidation[149] and
organoboron compounds are versatile synthetic reagents
in the palladium-catalyzed coupling with organohalides
(the so-called Suzuki±Miyaura coupling).[150]
6 Conclusions
The catalytic method for CH bond functionalization is
obviously one of the simplest, most powerful methods in
organic synthesis. From the synthetic point of view,
CH/olefin, CH/acetylene, and CH/CO/olefin cou-
plings can be regarded as practical tools since these
reactions exhibit a high selectivity and efficiency, and a
wide applicability, which are essential for practical
organic synthesis.
During the past 40 years, CH bond cleavage, so-
called CH bond activation was an intriguing research
subject mainly for inorganic and organometallic chem-
ists. Recently, this situation has dramatically changed. A
variety of catalytic reactions involving CH bond
cleavage have become popular and various types of
transformation such as CH/olefin, CH/acetylene,
CH/CO/olefin,
CH/aryl,
CH/SiR3,
and
CH/
B(OR)2 couplings, and dehydrogenation of alkanes
have appeared in the literature. The growth of this
research area has been rapid, but the applicability of this
type of coupling reaction to the synthesis of complex
molecules is insufficient. Namely, many studies have
been focused on investigations of the scope and
limitations of these types of reactions.
Quite recently, some promising results have been
reported. Sames utilized the CH bond for the synthesis
of rhazinilam using a stoichiometric amount of a
palladium complex, Eq. (75).[151] They also reported
that the palladium-catalyzed oxidative functionaliza-
75
76
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1096
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
tion of sp3 CH bond in amino acids gives lactones regio-
and stereoselectively, Eq. (76).[152] This work strongly
implies that CH bonds can now be used as a synthetic
tool in the synthesis of complex molecules.
In the past several years, the fundamental features of
the catalytic use of CH bond in organic synthesis have
been defined. In the coming decade, it is likely that
developments of fascinating synthetic protocols involv-
ing unreactive CH bond cleavage will be reported in
organic synthesis.
References
[1] J. A. Kerr, in CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics,
71st edn., (Ed.: D. R. Lide), CRC: Boston, 1990; pp. 9-
95-9-96.
[2] J. P. Kleiman, M. Dubeck, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1963, 85,
1544.
[3] a) J. Chatt, H. R. Watson, J. Chem. Soc. 1962, 2545; b) J.
Chatt, J. M. Davidson, J. Chem. Soc. 1965, 843.
[4] a) A. E. Shilov, G. B. Shul×pin, Chem. Rev. 1997, 97,
2879; b) Y. Guari, S. Sabo-Etienne, B. Chaudret, Eur. J.
Inorg. Chem. 1999, 1047.
[5] a) R. H. Crabtree, Chem. Rev. 1985, 85, 245; b) F.
Kakiuchi, S. Murai, Top. Organomet. Chem. 1999, 3,
47; c) R. H. Crabtree, J. Chem. Soc. Dalton Trans. 2001,
2437; d) V. Ritleng, C. Sirlin, M. Pfeffer, Chem. Rev.
2002, 102, 1731; e) J. A. Labinger, J. E. Bercaw, Nature
2002, 417, 507.
[6] a) R. F. Jordan, D. F. Taylor, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1989,
111, 778; b) S. Rodewald, R. F. Jordan, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 1994, 116, 4491.
[7] a) E. J. Moore, W. R. Pretzer, T. J. O×Connell, J. Harris,
L. LaBounty, L. Chou, S. S. Grimmer, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 1992, 114, 5888; b) E. J. Moore, W. R. Pretzer, US
Patent 5,081,250, 1992.
[8] a) S. Murai, F. Kakiuchi, S. Sekine, Y. Tanaka, A.
Kamatani, M. Sonoda, N. Chatani, Nature 1993, 366,
529; b) F. Kakiuchi, S. Murai, Acc. Chem. Res. 2002, 35,
826.
[9] a) E. J. Corey, X.-M. Cheng, The Logic of Chemical
Synthesis, John Wiley & Sons: New York, 1989; b) J.
Fuhrhop, G. Penzlin, Organic Synthesis, 2nd edn., VCH:
Weinheim, 1994.
[10] R. C. Larock, Comprehensive Organic Transformations,
VCH: New York, 1989.
[11] a) P. Hong, H. Yamazaki, K. Sonogashira, N. Hagihara,
Chem. Lett. 1978, 535; b) H. Yamazaki, P. Hong, J. Mol.
Catal. 1983, 21, 133.
[12] a) P. Hong, H. Yamazaki, Chem. Lett. 1979, 1335; b) P.
Hong, H. Yamazaki, J. Mol. Catal. 1984, 26, 297.
[13] S. E. Diamond, A. Szalkiewicz, F. Mares, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 1979, 101, 490.
[14] M. H. Chisholm, F. A. Cotton, M. Extine, B. R. Stults,
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1976, 98, 4477.
[15] W. A. Nugent, D. W. Ovenall, S. J. Holmes, Organo-
metallics 1983, 2, 161.
[16] Y. Lin, D. Ma, X. Lu, Tetrahedron Lett. 1987, 28, 3249.
[17] a) J. F. Hartwig, R. A. Andersen, R. G. Bergman, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 1991, 113, 6492; b) R. H. Heyn, K. G.
Caulton, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1993, 115, 3354.
[18] L. N. Lewis, J. F. Smith, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1986, 108,
2728.
[19] a) W. D. Jones, W. P. Kossar, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1986,
108, 5640; b) G. C. Hsu, W. P. Kosar, W. D. Jones,
Organometallics 1994, 13, 385.
[20] a) S. Murai, F. Kakiuchi, S. Sekine, Y. Tanaka, A.
Kamatani, M. Sonoda, N. Chatani, Pure Appl. Chem.
1994, 66, 1527; b) F. Kakiuchi, S. Sekine, Y. Tanaka, A.
Kamatani, M. Sonoda, N. Chatani, S. Murai, Bull.
Chem. Soc. Jpn. 1995, 68, 62; c) F. Kakiuchi, Y. Tanaka,
T. Sato, N. Chatani, S. Murai, Chem. Lett. 1995, 679;
d) M. Sonoda, F. Kakiuchi, N. Chatani, S. Murai, J.
Organomet. Chem. 1995, 504, 151; e) S. Murai, N.
Chatani, F. Kakiuchi, Pure Appl. Chem. 1997, 69, 589;
f) M. Sonoda, F. Kakiuchi, N. Chatani, M. Murai, Bull.
Chem. Soc. Jpn. 1997, 70, 3117; g) T. Sato, F. Kakiuchi,
N. Chatani, S. Murai, Chem. Lett. 1998, 893.
[21] a) M. Sonoda, F. Kakiuchi, A. Kamatani, N. Chatani, S.
Murai, Chem. Lett. 1996, 109; b) F. Kakiuchi, H. Ohtaki,
M. Sonoda, N. Chatani, S. Murai, Chem. Lett. 2001, 918.
[22] F. Kakiuchi, T. Sato, K. Igi, N. Chatani, S. Murai, Chem.
Lett. 2001, 386.
[23] a) F. Kakiuchi, M. Yamauchi, N. Chatani, S. Murai,
Chem. Lett. 1996, 111; b) F. Kakiuchi, T. Sato, T.
Tsujimoto, M. Yamauchi, N. Chatani, S. Murai, Chem.
Lett. 1998,1053.
[24] F. Kakiuchi, T. Sato, M. Yamauchi, N. Chatani, S.
Murai, Chem. Lett. 1999, 19.
[25] F. Kakiuchi, T. Tsujimoto, M. Sonoda, N. Chatani, S.
Murai, Synlett 2001, 948.
[26] F. Kakiuchi, M. Sonoda, T. Tsujimoto, N. Chatani, S.
Murai, Chem. Lett. 1999, 1083.
[27] a) T. Matsubara, N. Koga, D. G. Musaev, K. Morokuma,
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 12692; b) T. Matsubara, N.
Koga, D. G. Musaev, K. Morokuma, Organometallics
2000, 19, 2318.
[28] F. Kakiuchi, H. Ohtaki, S. Arnon, M. Usui, N. Chatani,
S. Murai, unpublished results.
[29] C. P. Lenges, M. Brookhart, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1999,
121, 6616.
[30] a) H. Guo, W. P. Weber, Polym. Bull. 1994, 32, 525;
b) S. K. Gupta, W. P. Weber, Macromolecules 2002, 35,
3369 and references cited therein.
[31] a) P. W. R. Harris, P. D. Woodgate, J. Organomet. Chem.
1996, 506, 339; b) P. W. R. Harris, P. D. Woodgate, J.
Organomet. Chem. 1997, 530, 211; c) P. W. R. Harris,
C. E. F. Rickard, P. D. Woodgate, J. Organomet. Chem.
2000, 601, 172.
[32] R. Grigg, V. Savic, Tetrahedron Lett. 1997, 38, 5737.
[33] Y. Guari, S. Sabo-Etienne, B. Chaudret, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 1998, 120, 4228.
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1097
[34] a) S. Busch, W. Leitner, Chem. Commun. 1999, 2305;
b) S. Busch, W. Leitner, Adv. Synth. Catal. 2001, 343,
192.
[35] B. M. Trost, K. Imi, I. W. Davies, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
1995, 117, 5371.
[36] R. F. R. Jazzar, M. F. Mahon, M. K. Whittlesey, Orga-
nometallics 2001, 20, 3745.
[37] R. A. Sanchez-Delgado, J. S. Bradley, G. Wilkinson, J.
Chem. Soc. Dalton Trans. 1976, 399.
[38] S. D. Drouin, D. Amoroso, G. P. A. Yap, D. E. Fogg,
Organometallics, 2002, 21, 1042.
[39] K. Hiraki, T. Ishimoto, H. Kawano, Bull. Chem. Soc.
Jpn. 2000, 73, 2099.
[40] P. Lu, J. Paulasaari, K. Jin, R. Bau, W. P. Weber,
Organometallics 1998, 17, 584.
[41] R. Aufdenblatten, S. Diezi, A. Togni, Monatsh. Chem.
2000, 131, 1345.
[42] Y.-G. Lim, J.-S. Han, S.-S. Yang, J. H. Chun, Tetrahedron
Lett. 2001, 42, 4853.
[43] C.-H. Jun, C. W. Moon, J.-B. Hond, S.-G. Lim, K.-Y.
Chung, Y.-H. Kim, Chem. Eur. J. 2002, 8, 485.
[44] a) Y.-G. Lim, Y. H. Kim, J.-B. Kang, J. Chem. Soc.
Chem. Commun. 1994, 2267; b) Y.-G. Lim, J.-B. Kang,
Y. H. Kim, J. Chem. Soc. Perkin Trans. 1. 1996, 2201.
[45] F. Kakiuchi, P. Le Gendre, A. Yamada, H. Ohtaki, S.
Murai, Tetrahedron: Asymmetry 2000, 11, 2647.
[46] a) Y.-G. Lim, J.-B. Kang, Y. H. Kim, Chem. Commun.
1996, 585; b) Y.-G. Lim, J.-B. Kang, Y. H. Kim, J. Chem.
Soc. Perkin 1 1998, 699; c) Y.-G. Lim, J.-B. Kang, B. T.
Koo, Tetrahedron Lett. 1999, 40, 7691; d) Y.-G. Lim, J.-S.
Han, B. T. Koo, J.-B. Kang, Polymer 2000, 41, 4351;
e) Y.-G. Lim, J.-B. Kang, K. Lee, Y. H. Kim, Hetero-
atom Chem. 2002, 13, 346.
[47] a) N. Fujii, F. Kakiuchi, N. Chatani, S. Murai, Chem.
Lett. 1996, 939; b) N. Fujii, F. Kakiuchi, A. Yamada, N.
Chatani, S. Murai, Chem. Lett. 1997, 425; c) N. Fujii, F.
Kakiuchi, A. Yamada, N. Chatani, S. Murai, Bull.
Chem. Soc. Jpn. 1998, 71, 285.
[48] a) K. L. Tan, R. G. Bergman, J. A. Ellman, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 2685; b) R. K. Thalji, K. A.
Ahrendt, R. G. Bergman, J. A. Ellman, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 2001, 123, 9692; c) K. L. Tan, R. G. Bergman, J. A.
Ellman, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 3202.
[49] K. L. Tan, R. G. Bergman, J. A. Ellman, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 2002, 124, 13964.
[50] a) K. Kashiwagi, R. Sugise, T. Shimakawa, T. Matuura,
M. Shirai, F. Kakiuchi, S. Murai, Organometallics 1997,
16, 2233; b) S. Murai, K. Oodan, R. Sugise, M. Shirai, T.
Shimakawa, Jpn. Kokai Tokkyo Koho 09 531, 1994
(Ube Industiries, Ltd.); Chem. Abstr. 1994, 120, 191146.
[51] a) Rhone-Poulenc, Netherlands Patent 6 603 115, 1966;
Chem. Abstr. 1967, 66, 85483; b) A. Misono, Y. Uchida,
M. Hidai, H. Kanai, J. Chem Soc., Chem. Commun.
1967, 357; c) A. Fukuoka, T. Nagano, S. Furuta, M.
Yoshizawa, M. Hirano, S. Komiya, Bull. Chem. Soc.
Jpn. 1998, 71, 1409 and references cited therein.
[52] Recent studies, see: a) P. A. Chetcuti, C. B. Knobler,
M. F. Hawthorne, Organometallics 1988, 7, 650; b) J.
Barrera, M. Sabat, W. D. Harman, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
1991, 113, 8178; c) J. Barrera, M. Sabat, W. D. Harman,
Organometallics 1993, 12, 4381.
[53] C.-H. Jun, D.-C. Hwang, S.-J. Na, Chem. Commun.
1998, 1405.
[54] N. Chatani, T. Asaumi, S. Yorimitsu, T. Ikeda, F.
Kakiuchi, S. Murai, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 10935.
[55] C. S. Cho, T. K. Kim, B. T. Kim, T.-J. Kim, S. C. Shim, J.
Organomet. Chem. 2002, 650, 65 and references cited
therein.
[56] J. Jacob, C. M. Cavalier, W. D. Jones, S. A. Godleski,
R. R. Valente, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chemical 2002, 182 ±
183, 565.
[57] R. Dorta, A. Togni, Chem. Commun. 2003, 760.
[58] K. Oguma, M. Miura, T. Satoh, M. Nomura, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 10464.
[59] a) T. Matsumoto, D. J. Taube, R. A. Periana, H. Taube,
H. Yoshida, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 7414; b) T.
Matsumoto, R. A. Periana, D. J. Taube, H. Yoshida, J.
Mol. Catal. A: Chemical 2002, 180, 1.
[60] S. Patai (Ed.), The Chemistry of Alkenes, Interscience:
New York, 1964.
[61] a) J. P. Collman, L. S. Hegedus, J. R. Norton, R. G.
Finke, Principles and Applications of Organotransition
Metal Chemistry, University Science Books: California,
1987, Chapter 14; b) G. O. Spessard, G. L. Miessler,
Organometallic Chemistry, Prentice-Hall: New Jersey,
1997, Chapter 9.
[62] a) R. C. Larock, Comprehensive Organic Transforma-
tions, VCH: New York, 1989, pp. 105 ± 282; b) V. Farina,
V. Krishnamurthy, W. J. Scott, The Stille Reaction, John
Wiley and Sons: New York, 1998.
[63] T. Mizoroki, K. Mori, A. Ozaki, Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn.
1971, 44, 581.
[64] a) R. F. Heck, J. P. Noller, Jr., J. Org. Chem. 1972, 37,
2320; b) R. F. Heck, Acc. Chem. Res. 1979, 12, 146;
c) R. F. Heck, R. F. Org. React. 1982, 27, 345; d) J. Tsuji,
Palladium Reagents and Catalysts, John Wiley & Sons:
Chichester, 1995, pp. 127 ± 168.
[65] P. Hong, B.-R. Cho, H. Yamazaki, Chem. Lett. 1979,
339.
[66] P. Hong, B.-R. Cho, H. Yamazaki, Chem. Lett. 1980,
507.
[67] a) G. Halbritter, F. Knoch, A. Wolski, H. Kisch, Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1994, 33, 1603; b) U. R. Aulwurm,
J. U. Melchinger, H. Kisch, Organometallics 1995, 14,
3385; c) U. D¸rr, H. Kisch, Synlett 1997, 1335.
[68] a) F. Kakiuchi, Y. Yamamoto, N. Chatani, S. Murai,
Chem. Lett. 1995, 681; b) F. Kakiuchi, T. Uetsuhara, Y.
Tanaka, N. Chatani, S. Murai, J. Mol. Catal. A:
Chemical 2002, 182 ± 183, 511.
[69] T. Satoh, Y. Nishinaka, M. Miura, M. Nomura, Chem.
Lett. 1999, 615.
[70] T. M. Londergan, Y. You, M. E. Thompson, W. P.
Weber, Macromolecules 1998, 31, 2784.
[71] N. C. Greenham, S. C. Moratti, D. D. C. Bradley, R. H.
Friend, A. B. Holmes, Nature 1993, 365, 628.
[72] P. W. R. Harris, C. E. F. Rickard, P. D. Woodgate, J.
Organomet. Chem. 1999, 589, 168.
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1098
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
[73] Y.-G. Lim, K.-H. Lee, B. T. Koo, J.-B. Kang, Tetrahe-
dron Lett. 2001, 42, 7609.
[74] S. Sakaguchi, T. Kubo, Y. Ishii, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
2001, 40, 2534.
[75] a) T. Hayashi, K. Inoue, N. Taniguchi, M. Ogasawara, J.
Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 9918; b) M. A. Campo, R. C.
Larock, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 14326.
[76] a) C. Jia, D. Piao, J. Oyamada, W. Lu, T. Kitamura, Y.
Fujiwara, Science 2000, 287, 1992; b) C. Jia, W. Lu, J.
Oyamada, T. Kitamura, K. Matsuda, M. Irie, Y.
Fujiwara, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 7252; c) C. Jia,
D. Piao, T. Kitamura, Y. Fujiwara, J. Org. Chem. 2000,
65, 7516; d) C. Jia, T. Kitamura, Y. Fujiwara, Acc.
Chem. Res. 2001, 34, 633; e) J. Oyamada, C. Jia, Y.
Fujiwara, T. Kitamura, Chem. Lett. 2002, 380.
[77] a) I. Moritani, Y. Fujiwara, Tetrahedron Lett. 1967,
1119; b) Y. Fujiwara, I. Moritani, M. Matsuda, S.
Teranishi, Tetrahedron Lett. 1968, 633; c) Y. Fujiwara,
I. Moritani, M. Matsuda, Tetrahedron 1968, 4819; d) I.
Moritani, Y. Fujiwara, Synthesis 1973, 524.
[78] a) Y. Fujiwara, I. Moritani, S. Danno, R. Asano, S.
Teranishi, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1969, 91, 7166; b) J. Tsuji,
H. Nagashima, Tetrahedron 1984, 40, 2699.
[79] K. Mikami, M. Hatano, M. Terada, Chem. Lett. 1999,
55.
[80] C. Jia, W. Lu, T. Kitamura, Y. Fujiwara, Org. Lett. 1999,
1, 2097.
[81] T. Yokota, M. Tani, S. Sakaguchi, Y. Ishii, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 2003, 125, 1476.
[82] M. D. K. Boele, G. P. F. van Strijdonck, A. H. M. de V-
ries, P. C. J. Kamer, J. G. de Vries, P. W. N. M. van Leeu-
wen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 1586.
[83] a) T. Matsumoto, H. Yoshida, Chem. Lett. 2000, 1064;
b) T. Matsumoto, R. A. Periana, D. J. Taube, H. Yoshi-
da, J. Catal. 2002, 206, 272.
[84] H. Weissman, X. Song, D. Milstein, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
2001, 123, 337.
[85] a) B. J. Fisher, R. Eisenberg, Organometallics 1983, 2,
764; b) T. Sakakura, T. Sodeyama, K. Sasaki, K. Wada,
M. Tanaka, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1990, 112, 7221; c) S. E.
Boyd, L. D. Field, M. G. Partridge, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
1994, 116, 9492; d) G. P. Rosini, W. T. Boses, A. S.
Goldman, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1994, 116, 9498; e) P.
Margle, T. Ziegler, P. E. Blˆchl, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996,
118, 5412; f) J. S. Bridgewater, B. Lee, S. Bernhard, J. R.
Schoonover, P. C. Ford, Organometallics 1997, 16, 5592.
[86] a) N. Chatani, T. Fukuyama, F. Kakiuchi, S. Murai, J.
Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 493; b) N. Chatani, T.
Fukuyama, H. Tatamidani, F. Kakiuchi, S. Murai, J.
Org. Chem. 2000, 65, 4039.
[87] R. Agarwala, K. A. Azam, R. Dilshad, S. E. Kabir, R.
Miah, M. Shahiduzzaman, K. I. Hardcastle, E. Rosen-
berg, M. B. Hursthouse, K. M. A. Malik, J. Organomet.
Chem. 1995, 492, 135 and references cited therein.
[88] T. Fukuyama, N. Chatani, J. Tatsumi, F. Kakiuchi, and S.
Murai, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 11522.
[89] N. Chatani, Y. Ie, F. Kakiuchi, S. Murai, J. Org. Chem.
1997, 62, 2604.
[90] Y. Ie, N. Chatani, T. Ogo, D. R. Marshall, T. Fukuyama,
F. Kakiuchi, S. Murai, J. Org. Chem. 2000, 65, 1475.
[91] T. Fukuyama, N. Chatani, F. Kakiuchi, S. Murai, J. Org.
Chem. 1997, 62, 5647.
[92] N. Chatani, S. Yorimitsu, T. Asaumi, F. Kakiuchi, S.
Murai, J. Org. Chem. 2002, 67, 7557.
[93] N. Chatani, T. Asaumi, T. Ikeda, S. Yorimitsu, Y. Ishii,
F. Kakiuchi, S. Murai, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122,
12882.
[94] N. Chatani, T. Asaumi, S. Yorimitsu, T. Ikeda, F.
Kakiuchi, S. Murai, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 10935.
[95] Y. Ishii, N. Chatani, F. Kakiuchi, S. Murai, Organo-
metallics 1997, 16, 3615.
[96] N. Chatani, Y. Ishii, Y. Ie, F. Kakiuchi, S. Murai, J. Org.
Chem. 1998, 63, 5129.
[97] Y. Ishii, N. Chatani, F. Kakiuchi, S. Murai, Tetrahedron
Lett. 1997, 38, 7565.
[98] J. W. Szewczyk, R. L. Zuckerman, R. G. Bergman, J. A.
Ellman, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2001, 40, 216.
[99] a) G. Bringmann, D. Menche, Acc. Chem. Res. 2001, 34,
615; b) S. Tasler, G. Bringmann, Chem. Recrd. 2002, 2,
113.
[100] a) M. Catellani,G. P. Chiusoli, J. Organomet. Chem.
1985, 286, C13; b) M. Catellani, G. P. Chiusoli, C.
Castagnoli, J. Organomet. Chem. 1991, 407, C30.
[101] a) O. Reiser, M. Weber, A. de Meijere, Angew. Chem.
Int. Ed. Engl. 1989, 28, 1037; b) K. Albrecht, O. Reiser,
M. Weber, B. Knieriem, A. de Meijere, Tetrahedron
1994, 50, 383.
[102] a) T. Satoh, Y. Kawamura, M. Miura, M. Nomura,
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1997, 36, 1740; b) T. Satoh,
J.-I. Inoh, Y. Kawamura, Y. Kawamura, M. Miura, M.
Nomura, Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 1998, 71, 2239; c) Y.
Kawamura, T. Satoh, M. Miura, M. Nomura, Chem.
Lett. 1999, 961.
[103] R. B. Bedford, S. J. Coles, M. B. Hursthouse, M. E.
Limmert, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2003, 42, 112.
[104] a) T. Satoh, Y. Kametani, Y. Terao, M. Miura, M.
Nomura, Tetrahedron Lett. 1999, 40, 5345; b) T. Satoh,
M. Miura, M. Nomura, J. Organomet. Chem. 2002, 653,
161.
[105] Y. Kametani, T. Satoh, M. Miura, M. Nomura, Tetrahe-
dron Lett. 2000, 41, 2655.
[106] Y. Terao, Y. Kametani, H. Wakui, T. Satoh, M. Miura,
M. Nomura, Tetrahedron 2001, 57, 5967.
[107] T. Okazawa, T. Satoh, M. Miura, M. Nomura, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 5286.
[108] B. Glover, K. A. Harvey, B. Liu, M. J. Sharp, M. F.
Tymoschenko, Org. Lett. 2003, 5, 301.
[109] A. Mori, A. Sekiguchi, K. Masui, T. Shimada, M. Horie,
K. Osakada, M. Kawamoto, T. Ikeda, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
2003, 125, 1700.
[110] S. Oi, S. Fukita, N. Hirata, N. Watanuki, S. Miyano, Y.
Inoue, Org. Lett. 2001, 3, 2579.
[111] S. Oi, Y. Ogino, S. Fukita, Y. Inoue, Org. Lett. 2002, 4,
1783.
[112] a) G. Dyker, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1992, 31,
1023; b) G. Dyker, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1994,
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1099
33, 103; c) G. Dyker, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 1999, 38,
1698.
[113] S. Oi, S. Fukita, Y. Inoue, Chem. Commun. 1998, 2439.
[114] F. Kakiuchi, S. Kan, K. Igi, N. Chatani, S. Murai, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 2003, 125, 1698.
[115] a) B. D. Dangel, K. Godula, S. W. Youn, B. Sezen, D.
Sames, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 11856; b) B. Sezen,
R. Franz, D. Sames, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 13372.
[116] R. H. Crabtree, J. M. Mihelcic, J. M. Quirk, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 1979, 101, 7738.
[117] D. R. Stull, E. F. Westrum, G. C. Sinke, The Chemical
Thermodynamics of Organic Compounds, Robert E.
Kreiger: Malabar, FL, 1987.
[118] D. Baudry, M. Ephritikhine, H. Felkin, R. Holmes-
Smith, J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 1983, 788.
[119] M. J. Burk, R. H. Crabtree, C. P. Parnell, R. J. Uriarte,
Organometallics 1984, 3, 816.
[120] H. Felkin, T. Fillebeen-Khan, Y. Gault, R. Holmes-
Smith, J. Zakrzewski, Tetrahedron Lett. 1984, 25, 1279.
[121] H. Felkin, T. Fillebeen-Khan, R. Holmes-Smith, L.
Yingrui, Tetrahedron Lett. 1985, 26, 1999.
[122] M. J. Burk, R. H. Crabtree, D. V. McGrath, J. Chem.
Soc. Chem. Commun. 1985, 1829.
[123] M. J. Burk, R. H. Crabtree, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1987,
109, 8025.
[124] M. Gupta, C. Hagen, R. J. Flesher, W. C. Kaska, C. M.
Jensen, Chem. Commun. 1996, 2083.
[125] R. H. Crabtree, C. P. Parnell, Organometallics 1985, 4,
519.
[126] a) J. A. Maguire, W. T. Boese, A. S. Goldman, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 1989, 111, 7088; b) J. A. Maguire, A. S.
Goldman, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1991, 113, 6706; c) J. A.
Maguire, A. Petrillo, A. S. Goldman, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
1992, 114, 9492; d) K. Wang, M. E. Goldman, T. J.
Emge, A. S. Goldman, J. Organomet. Chem. 1996, 518,
55.
[127] a) T. Fujii, Y. Saito, J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun.
1990, 757; b) T. Fujii, Y. Higashino, Y. Saito, J. Chem.
Soc. Dalton Trans. 1993, 517.
[128] T. Aoki, R. H. Crabtree, Organometallics 1993, 12, 294.
[129] a) W.-W. Xu, G. P. Rosini. M. Gupta, C. M. Jensen,
W. C. Kaska, K. Krogh-Jespersen, A. S. Goldman,
Chem. Commun. 1997, 2273; b) F. Liu, A. S. Goldman,
Chem. Commun. 1999, 655.
[130] a) S. Niu, M. B. Hall, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1999, 121, 3992;
b) M. W. Haenel, S. Oevers, K. Angermund, W. C.
Kaska, H.-J. Fan, M. B. Hall, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
2001, 40, 3596. Also see, c) S. Niu, M. B. Hall, Chem.
Rev. 2000, 100, 353; d) S. Li, M. B. Hall, Organometal-
lics 2001, 20, 2153.
[131] a) K. Krogh-Jespersen, M. Czerw, M. Kanzelberger,
A. S. Goldman, J. Chem. Inf. Comput. Sci. 2001, 41, 56;
b) K. Krogh-Jespersen, M. Czerw, N. Summa, K. B.
Renkema, P. D. Achord, A. S. Goldman, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 2002, 124, 11404.
[132] W. A. Gustavson, P. S. Epstein, M. D. Curtis, Organo-
metallics 1982, 1, 884.
[133] Y. Uchimaru, A. M. M. El Sayed, M. Tanaka, Organo-
metallics 1993, 12, 2065.
[134] P. I. Djurovich, A. R. Dolich, D. H. Berry, J. Chem. Soc.
Chem. Commun. 1994, 1897.
[135] K. Ezbiansky, P. I. Djurovich, M. LaForest, D. J. Sin-
ning, R. Zayes, D. H. Berry, Organometallics 1998, 17,
1455.
[136] a) F. Kakiuchi, K. Igi, M. Matsumoto, N. Chatani, S.
Murai, Chem. Lett. 2001, 422; b) F. Kakiuchi, M.
Matsumoto, K. Tsuchiya, K. Igi, T. Hayamizu, N.
Chatani, S. Murai, J. Organomet. Chem. in press.
[137] F. Kakiuchi, K. Igi, M. Matsumoto, T. Hayamizu, N.
Chatani, S. Murai, Chem. Lett. 2002, 396.
[138] a) M. Ishikawa, H. Sakamoto, S. Okazaki, A. Naka, J.
Organomet. Chem. 1992, 439, 19; b) M. Ishikawa, S.
Okazaki, A. Naka, H. Sakamoto, Organometallics 1992,
11, 4135; c) M. Ishikawa, A. Naka, J. Ohshita, Organo-
metallics 1993, 12, 4987; d) M. Isihkawa, S. Okazaki, A.
Naka, Organometallics 1995, 14, 114; e) A. Naka, K. K.
Lee, K. Yoshizawa, T. Yamabe, M. Ishikawa, Organo-
metallics 1999, 18, 4524; f) M. Ishikawa, A. Naka,
Synlett 1995, 794 and references cited therein;
[139] a) N. A. Williams, Y. Uchimaru, M. Tanaka, J. Chem.
Soc. Chem. Commun. 1995, 1129; b) N. A. Williams, Y.
Uchimaru, M. Tanaka, Dalton Trans. 2003, 236.
[140] F. Kakiuchi, M. Matsumoto, M. Sonoda, T. Fukuyama,
N. Chatani, S. Murai, N. Furukawa, Y. Seki, Chem. Lett.
2000, 750.
[141] a) Y. Seki, K. Takeshita, K. Kawamoto, J. Organomet.
Chem. 1989, 369, 117; b) Y. Wakatsuki, H. Yamazaki,
M. Nakano, Y. Yamamoto, J. Chem. Soc. Chem.
Commun. 1991, 703; c) B. Marciniec, C. Petraszuk,
Organometallics 1997, 16, 4320; d) T. Mise, Y. Takagu-
chi, T. Umemiya, S. Shimizu, Y. Wakatsuki, Chem.
Commun. 1998, 699; e) F. Kakiuchi, A. Yamada, N.
Chatani, S. Murai, N. Furukawa, Y. Seki, Organometal-
lics 1998, 18, 2033.
[142] K. M. Waltz, X. He, C. Muhoro, J. F. Hartwig, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 1995, 117, 11357.
[143] K. M. Waltz, J. F. Hartwig, Science 1997, 277, 211.
[144] H. Chen, J. F. Hartwig, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 1999, 38,
3391.
[145] a) H. Chen, S. Schlecht, T. C. Semple, J. F. Hartwig,
Science 2000, 287, 1995; b) Y. Kondo, D. Garcia-
Cuadrado, J. F. Hartwig, N. K. Boaen, N. L. Wanger,
M. A. Hillmyer, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 1164.
[146] a) C. N. Iverson, M. R. Smith, III, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
1999, 121, 7696; b) J.-Y. Cho, C. N. Iverson, M. R.
Smith, III, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 12868; c) M. K.
Tse, J.-Y. Cho, M. R. Smith, III, Org. Lett. 2001, 3, 2831;
d) J.-Y. Cho, M. K. Tse, D. Holmes, R. E. Maleczka Jr.,
M. R. Smith, III, Science 2002, 295, 305.
[147] S. Shimada, A. S. Batsanov, J. A. K. Howard, T. B.
Marder, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2001, 40, 2168.
[148] a) T. Ishiyama, J. Takagi, K. Ishida, N. Miyaura, N. R.
Anastasi, J. F. Hartwig, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124,
390; b) J. Takagi, K. Sato, J. F. Hartwig, T. Ishiyama, N.
Miyaura, Tetrahedron Lett. 2002, 43, 5649; c) T. Ishiya-
ma, J. Takagi, J. F. Hartwig, N. Miyaura, Angew. Chem.
Int. Ed. 2002, 41, 3056.
REVIEWS
Fumitoshi Kakiuchi, Naoto Chatani
1100
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
asc.wiley-vch.de
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
[149] A. Pelter, K. Smith, H. C. Brown, Borane Reagents,
Academic Press, London, 1988.
[150] a) N. Miyaura, A. Suzuki, Chem. Rev. 1995, 95, 2457;
b) A. Suzuki, J. Organomet. Chem. 1999, 576, 147.
[151] a) J. A. Johnson, D. Sames, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122,
6321; b) J. A. Johnson, N. Li, D. Sames, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 2002, 124, 6900.
[152] B. D. Dangel, J. A. Johnson, D. Sames, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 2001, 123, 8149.
Catalytic Methods for CH Bond Functionalization
REVIEWS
Adv. Synth. Catal. 2003, 345, 1077 ± 1101
asc.wiley-vch.de
¹ 2003 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim
1101
