Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
www.elsevier.nl/locate/susc
Propylene on Pt(111)
II. Hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, and H–D exchange
Francisco Zaera *, Demetrius Chrysostomou
Department of Chemistry, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA
Received 30 November 1999; accepted for publication 28 January 2000
Abstract
The thermal chemistry of propylene on Pt(111) single-crystal surfaces was studied under vacuum by using temperature-
programmed desorption spectroscopy. Besides molecular desorption and hydrogen production from propylene dehydro-
genation (ﬁrst to propylidyne and eventually to surface carbon), a small amount of propane from self-hydrogenation of
the oleﬁn is detected at about 280 K. Hydrogen coadsorption weakens the adsorption of propylene on the surface, and
enhances the production of propane. In addition to deuteration to propane, deuterium coadsorption with propylene
leads to H–D exchange. Multiple exchange is evidenced by the formation of all possible deuterium-substituted propylenes
and propanes, including propylene-d6 and propane-d8. A detailed analysis of the data provided support for a mechanism
where the slow half-hydrogenation of propylene to propyl species is followed by competitive b-hydride and reductive
elimination, to (exchanged) propylene and propane, respectively. The unexpectedly low yields of propylene-d5 and
propane-d7 suggest a preferential hydrogenation at the central carbon atom. Most of the propylene that remains on the
surface above 350 K dehydrogenates to propylidyne (Pt3OCMCH2MCH3). A small fraction of that species rehydro-
genates to propane at 430 K, while the rest undergoes stepwise dehydrogenation to surface carbon. Arguments against
the formation of an allylic intermediate are provided, and a comparison with the chemistry of ethylene on the same
surface is included. © 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Alkenes; Deuterium; Hydrogen atom; Isotopic exchange traces; Platinum; Single crystal surfaces; Surface chemical
reaction; Thermal desorption spectroscopy
1. Introduction
has been realized over the years that the seemingly
simple steps involved in these processes are in fact
The hydrogenation of oleﬁns is at the heart of
quite complex. Several mechanisms have been pro-
a number of catalytic processes of industrial rele-
posed, depending on the source of the hydrogen
vance.
Since
the
discovery
by
Sabatier
and
that incorporates into the oleﬁn (atomic or molecu-
Senderens in 1897 that transition metals are good
lar, from the surface or from the gas phase), on
catalysts for hydrocarbon hydrogenation, extens-
the number of atoms incorporated (sequential or
ive studies have been carried out to understand
concerted addition of the two hydrogen atoms to
the mechanistic details of such reactions [1–4]. It
the double bond), and on competition with other
steps such as disproportionations and displace-
ments [5,6]. Even the notion that the reaction
* Corresponding author. Tel.: +1-909-787-5498;
takes place directly on the surface of the metal has
fax: +1-909-787-3962.
E-mail address: francisco.zaera@ucr.edu (F. Zaera)
been challenged [7,8].
0039-6028/00/$ - see front matter © 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
PII: S0039-6028 ( 00 ) 00337-X
90
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
The mechanistic studies on hydrocarbon con-
via ethyl intermediates [19,42], but occurs at tem-
peratures much lower than those needed for any
version reactions have been greatly advanced with
the advent of isotopic labeling. Speciﬁcally, analy-
of the other reactions [22].
It is tempting to extend the preceding conclusions
sis of the isotopic content of the products of
hydrocarbon reactions with deuterium allows for
to all hydrogenation processes, but, unfortunately,
much less work has been carried out to date with
an
estimation
of
the
relative
importance
of
diﬀerent hydrogenation and dehydrogenation steps
heavier oleﬁns. Early catalytic studies with propy-
lene and deuterium over supported platinum cata-
on the surface of the catalyst [9]. In the case of
the reactions of oleﬁns with D2, early experiments
lysts [52,53] proved the feasibility of complete
deuterium incorporation into the resulting propane.
indicated that, contrary to expectation, a number
of alkanes with diﬀerent degrees of isotopic substi-
It was concluded that deuterium addition proceeds
atomically (it involves surface D, not D2), and that
tution are produced. This points to the occurrence
of a number of surface hydrogenation and dehy-
the further hydrogenation of a half-hydrogenated
(propyl) intermediate to the alkane is the rate-
drogenation steps in addition to the simple addi-
tion of two deuterium atoms to the double bond.
limiting step of the whole process. Interestingly,
almost no H–D-exchanged propylene was detected
The details of these competing surface processes
are still the source of some debate.
in those studies. More recent temperature-pro-
grammed desorption (TPD) experiments with pro-
Modern surface-science experiments carried out
under controlled conditions have further helped in
pylene coadsorbed with deuterium on Pt(111) [15]
reported no hydrogenation at all, and exchange of
the study of hydrocarbon conversion mechanisms
at the atomic level [10–13]. Most of the work on
up to three deuterium atoms. This latter result was
interpreted by the authors as indicating that the
oleﬁn hydrogenation has been carried out with
ethylene on Pt(111) [8,14–22] and other single-
terminal methyl moiety in propylene is unreactive.
The possibility of a new exchange mechanism via
crystal surfaces [23–31], and has also been aided
by the preparation and characterization of related
the activation of the weak allylic CMH bond was
ignored [54].
hydrocarbon
intermediates
[12,32–35].
Several
conclusions have already been reached from those
We have embarked in a careful study of the
chemistry of C3 hydrocarbons on Pt(111) single-
investigations. First, thermal activation of ethylene
chemisorbed on transition metal surfaces leads to
crystal surfaces that includes the characterization
of
hydrogenation–dehydrogenation
and
H–D
a number of competing reactions, including molec-
ular desorption [15], dehydrogenation to other
exchange in propylene and related compounds. In
the preceding paper [55] we addressed the issue of
strongly bonded surface species (in many cases
ethylidyne
[35–38]),
hydrogenation
to
ethane
the adsorption states of propylene on the surface
in terms of their relevance to catalytic hydrogena-
[18,19], and H–D exchange [22]. Second, the
formation of ethylidyne (PtOCMCH3) involves
tion processes. Here we describe TPD studies on
the thermal decomposition, hydrogenation, and
more than one step, and most likely goes through
the formation of an ethylidene (Pt2NCHMCH3)
H–D exchange of propylene on Pt(111) under
vacuum. Multiple H–D exchange is observed when
intermediate [35,39–45]. Third, ethylene hydro-
genation under vacuum is stepwise, via the rate-
coadsorbing propylene with deuterium on the plat-
inum surface, as manifested by the desorption of
limiting formation of an ethyl (PtMCH2MCH3)
intermediate
[19,46–48].
Fourth,
the catalytic
multiply deuterium-substituted propylene and pro-
pane species. Complete exchange was indicated by
hydrogenation of ethylene under atmospheric pres-
sures takes place in the presence of strongly bonded
the detection of propane-d8 in these desorption
experiments, a result that contradicts previous
carbonaceous deposits, a layer of ethylidyne in the
case of platinum, palladium, and rhodium surfaces
reports and rules out exclusive exchange via allylic
intermediates. A kinetic isotope eﬀect is apparent
[4,8,13,17,49–51]; the role of those adsorbed
species in the mechanism of hydrogenation is still
by the increasing desorption temperatures of both
propylenes and propanes with increasing degree of
not clear. Finally, H–D exchange also takes place
91
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
deuterium substitution. The product distributions
orientation and polished to a mirror ﬁnish using
standard procedures, and mounted on a sample
obtained here suggest stepwise H–D exchange and
deuterium incorporation, except for a few devia-
holder capable of cooling below 100 K and of
resistive heating to above 1000 K. The temperature
tions from a Schulz–Flory-type [56] behavior
which imply the formation of some particularly
was measured with a chromel–alumel thermocou-
ple spot-welded to the side of the crystal. The
stable surface intermediates. Hydrogenation of
propylidyne (Pt3OCMCH2MCH3) was observed
sample was routinely cleaned by cycles of sputter-
ing with Ar+ ions at room temperature, oxidation
as well. Further studies on the chemistry of selected
precursors for possible intermediates in propylene
in 2×10−7 Torr oxygen at 700 K, and annealing
in vacuum at 1000 K. The propylene (>99%
conversion, such as propyl and allyl iodides, will
be reported elsewhere [57].
purity) and deuterium (>99.5% atom purity) gases
were purchased from Matheson, and hydrogen
(>99.995% purity) was obtained from liquid
Carbonic. All gases were used as supplied, but
2. Experimental
their purity was checked periodically by mass
spectrometry. Gas exposures were performed by
The TPD experiments reported here were ini-
tially performed in a vacuum chamber especially
backﬁlling of the vacuum chamber using leak
valves,
and
are
reported
in
langmuirs
designed
for
reﬂection–absorption
infrared
spectroscopy (RAIRS) [44,47,58], but were later
(1 L¬10−6 Torr s), not corrected for diﬀerences
in ion gauge sensitivities.
repeated in a second apparatus. All data reported
in this paper were obtained in this second ultrahigh
vacuum (UHV) chamber, which is pumped with
a turbomolecular pump to a base pressure in the
3. Results
region of 6×10−11 Torr [59]. The chamber is
equipped with a quadrupole mass spectrometer
3.1. Propylene thermal chemistry on Pt(111)
retroﬁtted with a retractable nose cone ended on
a 5 mm diameter aperture and placed within 1 mm
The thermal chemistry of pure propylene in
Pt(111) was studied ﬁrst. Several masses were
of the front face of the single-crystal platinum
metal for selective detection of molecules desorbing
followed in the TPD experiments, but only three
stable species, hydrogen, propane, and molecular
from its surface. The mass quadrupole is interfaced
to a personal computer capable of monitoring the
propylene, were seen to desorb from this surface.
Our results roughly match those reported by
time evolution of up to 15 diﬀerent masses in a
single TPD experiment. The TPD data are reported
Salmero
´n and Somorjai [15] and by Avery and
Sheppard [62], but, thanks to our higher sensitiv-
in arbitrary units, but scales are provided in each
plot for relative comparisons. Most of the desorp-
ity, also provide a few new details not previously
observed. It was found that electron bombardment
tion data displayed in this report are those
obtained directly for the indicated mass units,
from stray electrons originating at the ionizing
region of the mass spectrometer induces some
except those in Figs. 6 and 8a, for which appro-
priate deconvolution [60] was carried out, as dis-
changes in the observed thermal chemistry. Fig. 1
illustrates this point by comparing the H2 (2 amu)
cussed below, in order to extract information about
speciﬁc species. The UHV system also contains a
and C3H6 (41 amu) TPD data obtained from
Pt(111) surfaces dosed with 1.5 L of propylene at
100 mm concentric hemispherical analyzer, a twin
anode X-ray gun, a rasterable sputtering ion gun,
90 K with and without biasing of the sample with
a negative voltage of −100 V; this bias is used to
and four-grid spherical retarding ﬁeld optics for
low-energy
electron
diﬀraction
(LEED).
The
repel the 55 eV kinetic energy electrons generated
in the ionizer of the mass spectrometer. Changes
details of this experimental setup have been
reported elsewhere [56,61].
in the surface chemistry of propylene become
apparent in the unbiased case by the low-temper-
The platinum single crystal was cut in the (111)
92
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
More detailed H2 (2 amu, left panel) and
C3H6 (41 amu, right panel) TPD data as a function
of initial propylene exposure at 90 K are shown in
Fig. 2. At low coverages the hydrogen desorption
occurs mostly between 320 and 420 K, in two
features centered at about 360 and 390 K. This
behavior is typical of hydrocarbons on transition
metal surfaces, and usually indicates early and
non-selective dehydrogenation. Nevertheless, some
stepwise decomposition is manifested in the pro-
pylene case by the high-temperature shoulder in
the H2 TPD trace. Two other small peaks grow at
around 425 and 520 K after exposures between 0.1
and 0.2 L, and a low-temperature shoulder also
becomes visible at round 340 K and in the 0.3 L
spectrum. After a 0.5 L propylene exposure the
H2 TPD acquires several distinct features, and by
1.0 L it adopts its ﬁnal shape, with peaks at 295,
320, 350 (almost undetectable), 390 (shoulder),
430 (main), 510, 580 (shoulder), 620, and about
720 K. Notice that the last peak to develop is that
at about 290 K, the one associated with the propyl-
ene to propylidyne (Pt3OCMCH2MCH3) trans-
Fig. 1. Hydrogen (2 amu) and molecular (41 amu) TPD data
formation, which only appears after doses above
from 1.5 L of propylene adsorbed on a Pt(111) single-crystal
0.75 L even though, according to the RAIRS data,
surface at 90 K. This ﬁgure contrasts the results obtained with
propylidyne is produced at the lowest propylene
and without sample electric bias (−100 V) in order to illustrate
exposures probed here. Perhaps the hydrogen atom
the eﬀect of electron bombardment from the mass spectrometer
ionizer on the chemistry of this system. A broadening of the
released in that reaction remains on the surface at
main molecular feature at 270 K, a change in the relative inten-
low coverages until temperatures in excess of
sity of the diﬀerent hydrogen TPD peaks, and a general deterio-
320 K, at which point it recombines to yield gas-
ration of the quality of the spectra are all seen when the surface
phase H2; in the high propylene coverage case, on
is exposed to the stray electrons. A linear heating temperature
the other hand, it may be forced to desorb at
rate of 5 K/s was used in all experiments.
lower temperatures because of repulsive adsor-
bate–adsorbate interactions. The evolution of the
H2 TPD traces with increasing propylene dose
ature shoulder seen at about 250 K in the corre-
sponding molecular desorption trace. This feature
correlates well with the build up of the diﬀerent
di-s- and p-bonded species identiﬁed by infrared
was in fact already observed in both of the previous
reports [15,62], but it is not detected when the
spectroscopy [55].
The interpretation of the main features of the
sample is biased to avoid electron bombardment.
Also, hydrogen desorption at around 290 K is
propylene molecular desorption spectra as a func-
tion of exposure (Fig. 2b) is fairly straightforward.
enhanced by electron dosing at the expense of later
decomposition at about 320 and 355 K. Finally,
The main peak in these TPD spectra appears at
about 280 K after a 1.0 L exposure, and grows
the quality of the data improves signiﬁcantly upon
biasing of the crystal, a result that we do not
and shifts to lower temperatures with increasing
dose, to 270 K for 1.5 L (a behavior typically
completely understand. The remaining TPD data
were acquired while biasing the surface with a
associated with second-order kinetics). This peak
is fairly symmetric, and does not show the low-
negative voltage of −100 V to avoid any electron-
induced chemistry.
temperature shoulder reported before; we ascribe
93
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
Fig. 2. Hydrogen (2 amu, left panel) and molecular (41 amu, right panel) TPD traces as a function of propylene dose on Pt(111) at
90 K. A –100 V bias was applied on the sample in these and all subsequent experiments. Hydrogen desorption is seen at all coverages,
but develops considerably in complexity with increasing coverage. The ten or more diﬀerent H2 peaks observed at saturation can
roughly be divided into three regions, namely, below 350 K (the transition from propylene to propylidyne), between 350 and 470 K
(dehydrogenation of propylidyne to a species of C3H2 stoichiometry), and above 470 K (complete decomposition to surface carbon).
Signiﬁcant propylene molecular desorption occurs only at high coverages, and mostly at 270 K.
this diﬀerence to the eﬀect of electron bombard-
obscured by multilayer desorption after doses in
excess of 1.5 L.
ment, as explained above. A second feature starts
to develop at around 180 K after a 0.3 L propylene
An additional comment is warranted about the
molecular desorption behavior seen for propylene
dose, but that peak does not grow much, and
always represents less than 10% of the total molec-
on Pt(111). The build-up of condensed propylene
under vacuum requires temperatures below 90 K,
ular desorption. Finally, a third desorption peak
is seen at low temperatures at almost all coverages.
the lowest temperature used in most of our experi-
ments, because the vapor pressure of propylene at
Indeed, a symmetric feature is detected at about
120 K after 0.1 L which grows, sharpens, and shifts
that temperature is in the order of 4×10−6 Torr
(its
normal
melting
point
is
87.90 K
[63]).
to lower temperatures with increasing exposures,
to about 110 K after a 0.5 L dose. The 0.75 L trace
Fortunately, the sample manipulator in our TPD
chamber could be made to cool the platinum
displays a similar peak in that temperature range
(the feature at around 180 K does grow and broad-
crystal down to below 75 K by pumping on the
liquid-nitrogen cooling reservoir. A few TPD
ens to lower temperature), but the 1.0 L case does
display a sharper peak in the low-temperature side
experiments were carried out after adsorption at
that temperature, in which case condensation was
with the exponential leading edge typical of zero-
order desorption processes from condensed layers.
observed (data not shown). Studies on the thermal
desorption of condensed propylene became impor-
The monolayer 110 K peak is presumably still
present in that case, except that it becomes
tant in light of the observation of a weak second-
94
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
layer physisorbed propylene state by RAIRS [55].
sensitivities of the mass spectrometer to those gases
compared with hydrogen. This led to an estimate
Clear distinguishing features were identiﬁed to
separate weakly p-bonded propylene from con-
of about 0.06±0.01 ML for the molecular desorp-
tion of propylene from a saturated layer. The
densed propylene. First, the build-up of the p
species is seen in RAIRS between 1.0 and 5.0 L,
propylene coverage was independently checked by
measuring the hydrogen TPD yield from a satu-
the exposure regime where the growth of the main
feature around 270 K is observed. Also, the use of
rated layer of propylidyne prepared via propylene
dosing at 300 K, which amounted to 1.10 ML of
slower heating rates in TPD shifts the peak posi-
tion to lower temperatures but does not lead to
atomic hydrogen, or 0.21±0.01 ML of propyli-
dyne. This means that about 30% of the saturated
any changes in the general number and shape of
the
desorption
features
(data
not
shown).
propylene layer adsorbed on Pt(111) at low tem-
peratures desorbs molecularly, while the rest dehy-
Speciﬁcally, a 2 K/s (instead of 5 K/s) heating rate
results in the appearance of the ﬁrst and last main
drogenates to propylidyne ﬁrst and to atomic
carbon at high temperatures. The coverage esti-
H2 TPD peaks at 280 K (instead of 290 K) and
405 K (instead of 430 K), and the main C3H6
mated here is consistent with the reported value
of 0.25 ML for the ordered (2×2) propylidyne
TPD peak at 255 K (instead of 270 K), at satura-
tion. Finally, the low-temperature desorption fea-
layer observed by LEED [65], and by the increase
in infrared spectroscopy peak intensities when
ture around 110 K starts as a symmetric ﬁrst-order
peak, and develops into a multilayer feature only
preparing propylidyne by adsorbing propylene
directly at 300 K (as compared with initially dosing
after exposures beyond 2.5 L. Our RAIRS data
provided additional evidence for the diﬀerences in
at 90 K and the annealing to 300 K) [55]. Lastly,
a small amount of propane is seen to desorb
adsorption
geometry
between
p-bonded
phy-
sisorbed and condensed propylene layers [55].
around 280 K, about 0.000 25 ML (see below).
The yields for hydrogen and molecular desorp-
tion in TPD experiments with propylene on
3.2. Desorption yields
Pt(111) as a function of exposure are displayed in
Fig. 3. The yield for hydrogen increases almost
In order to quantify the desorption yields from
TPD experiments with propylene on Pt(111), a
linearly with propylene dose up to 0.75 L, at which
point it curves and eventually levels oﬀ, an indica-
number of calibration procedures were followed.
First, the hydrogen TPD signal was calibrated
tion of saturation of the ﬁrst adsorbed layer. Some
molecular propylene desorption is seen at around
against uptake H2 TPD data obtained indepen-
dently on the clean surface; the areas were con-
110 and 180 K after exposures as low as 0.2 L.
The amount that desorbs in the latter peak levels
verted
to
coverages
by
using
the
report
of
Christmann et al. [64] where an exposure of 30 L
oﬀat around 0.008 ML after exposures over 1.0 L,
at which point most of the molecular desorption
H2 was equated to 0.6 ML of atomic hydrogen on
the
surface.
Also,
in
order
to
compare
the
from the ﬁrst layer occurs at 270 K; after a 1.5 L
dose this main feature represents a desorption of
hydrogen TPD readings from adsorbed hydrogen
and propylene, they were ﬁrst scaled by a factor
more than 0.05 ML of propylene. Additional
molecular desorption from a second layer and
of T1/2 (to convert mass spectrometer signals into
ﬂuxes), although this correction was not found to
from a condensed multilayer takes place at about
110–120 K after higher exposures, as discussed
be signiﬁcant in most cases. Following this pro-
cedure, the total integrated H2 TPD trace from a
before, but that contribution was not included
in Fig. 3.
Pt(111) surface saturated with propylene at 100 K
was estimated to correspond to approximately
Fig. 3 also displays the total amount of propyl-
ene chemisorbed on the Pt(111) surface versus
0.80 ML
of
atomic
hydrogen,
or
about
0.13±0.01 ML of propylene.
dose, as calculated by addition of the molecular
and hydrogen desorption yields. There is an almost
The yields for molecular propylene and for
propane were then estimated by using the relative
linear dependence of the total coverage on the
95
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
duction of a small amount of propane around
280 K. The yield of this propane amounts to
approximately 0.000 25 ML at saturation. Given
that propane production occurs at the onset of
hydrogen desorption, and since the yield seen for
this product is small, it is reasonable to propose
that propane desorption in this case is the result
of
propylene self-hydrogenation (even though
incorporation of hydrogen from the background
cannot be ruled out). Pre-adsorption of hydrogen
on Pt(111) is therefore expected to, and indeed
does, facilitate the hydrogenation reaction. The
left panel of Fig. 4 provides data illustrating this
point. The lower trace was obtained after a 1.5 L
dose of propylene on the clean surface at 90 K,
the middle spectrum correspond to the case where
7.5 L of H2 was dosed prior to exposure to 1.5 L
of propylene, and the top data were obtained by
predosing 5.0 L of H2 and then maintaining a
background pressure of 5×10−7 Torr of H2 in the
chamber while dosing the 1.5 L of propylene and
acquiring the TPD data. The signal for 29 amu
Fig. 3. TPD yields calculated from the uptake TPD data shown
was chosen here to follow the evolution of propane
in Fig. 2. The approximately straight line seen for the total
because of its negligible overlap with the cracking
uptake with exposure attests to the close to constant sticking
fragments from molecular propylene, but the
coeﬃcient for propylene in the initial stages of the adsorption.
results were corroborated by deconvolution of the
About 0.07 ML of the initial propylene monolayer desorbs
molecular ion (44 amu) and by following a number
molecularly at saturation, the remaining 0.14 ML decomposing
to propylidyne.
of additional ion fragments.
The main peak for the desorption of propane
in the absence of coadsorbed hydrogen is seen at
280 K. As mentioned earlier, this almost symmetri-
initial propylene exposure for doses up to 1.5 L,
an indication of an approximately constant stick-
cal peak corresponds to a yield of approximately
0.000 25 ML, or about one part in a thousand of
ing coeﬃcient for propylene (independent of cover-
age) at these low temperatures. The exposures in
the total propylene adsorbed on the ﬁrst layer.
The presence of hydrogen on the surface not only
Fig. 3 are not corrected for diﬀerences in ion gauge
sensitivity; after taking this eﬀect into account
increases the amount of propylene produced (to
about 0.001 ML in the case of the 7.5 L H2 pre-
(SPropylene/SNitrogen=1.77 [66]), the initial sticking
coeﬃcient for propylene on clean Pt(111) is esti-
dose), but also lowers the desorption temperature
of the C2H8: the middle trace displays a well-
mated at a value of approximately 0.24. Above
1.5 L (0.85 L after correcting for ion gauge sensi-
deﬁned peak at 255 K, skewed towards the low-
temperature side. Similar results were seen with a
tivities), the total amount of adsorbed propylene
(excluding that desorbing below 120 K) levels oﬀ
10.0 L H2 predose (data not shown), and further
yield increases were identiﬁed only when the TPD
because of saturation of the chemisorbed layer.
experiments were carried out in the presence of
gas-phase hydrogen. A peak at 205 K dominates
3.3. Hydrogenation of propylene on Pt(111)
the top spectrum in Fig. 4a, and the total propane
yield in that case amounts to 0.002 50 ML, ten
As mentioned before, the thermal activation of
propylene adsorbed on Pt(111) leads to the pro-
times that seen in the absence of hydrogen.
96
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
Fig. 4. Propane (29 amu, left panel) and molecular (41 amu, right panel) TPD from 1.5 L of propylene adsorbed on Pt(111) as a
function of hydrogen predose. The lower traces are for deposition on the clean surface, the middle data for propylene adsorption
after a 7.5 L hydrogen predose, and the top spectra for an initial 5.0 L H2 exposure followed by immersion in a constant
5×10−7 Torr H2 atmosphere during the propylene adsorption and TPD data acquisition. Increasing hydrogen coverages on the
surface weaken the adsorption of propylene on the surface and enhance propane formation.
A few other observations are worth highlighting
propylene. Notice that this is a very small feature,
representing less than 0.1% of the total propylene
from the spectra shown in Fig. 4a. The peaks
below 120 K correspond to cracking from molecu-
adsorbed. Direct alkyl desorption from metal sur-
faces has been reported in the past, both from
lar propylene desorption, and therefore do not
provide any new interesting information. The clear
copper [67] and nickel [68] crystals. Finally, there
is a small but reproducible feature in most propane
feature visible at 140 K in the case of propylene
exposures of 1.0 L and above is clearly associated
TPD spectra at around 430 K, which we interpret
as resulting from hydrogenation of propylidyne.
with a hydrogenated species, but may not corre-
spond to propylene desorption, since it does not
Indeed, the same peak is seen in experiments with
propylidyne layers prepared by propylene adsorp-
show
the
appropriate
cracking
pattern.
Speciﬁcally,
that
feature
displays
signiﬁcantly
tion at temperatures above 300 K. Interestingly,
coadsorption of deuterium instead of hydrogen
stronger intensities in the 41 and 42 amu fragments
than those expected for the cracking pattern of
leads to the appearance of this feature in the
46 amu trace only, implying the selective incorpo-
propane
in
our
mass
spectrometer:
the
29:41:42:43 amu signal intensity ratios measured
ration of two deuterium atoms into the surface
C3 intermediate. We have at present no explanation
from the TPD data followed ratios of 100:50:22:23,
whereas those extracted from the mass spectrum
for this observation.
The molecular TPD spectra obtained from the
of propane yielded ratios of 100:11:4:16. We sug-
gest this fragment to correspond to gas-phase
experiments discussed in the preceding paragraph
are displayed in Fig. 4b. Hydrogen coadsorption
propyl groups ejected from the surface after incor-
poration of one hydrogen atom into adsorbed
clearly reduces the adsorption energy of molecular
97
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
propylene: the main peak, seen around 270 K in
Pt(111) not only leads to deuteration to propane,
but also to extensive H–D exchange. A detailed
the absence of hydrogen, broadens and shifts to
approximately 230–240 K when hydrogen is pre-
characterization of these reactions is severely hin-
dered by the complex and overlapping mass spectra
sent on the surface. Furthermore, the small signal
at around 180 K grows signiﬁcantly, and shifts
of the deuterium-substituted propane and propyl-
ene molecules involved, in particular because
towards lower temperatures, to about 170 K. The
molecular desorption total yield increases by about
deconvolution of the spectra requires extremely
high quality TPD data together with accurate
50%, from 0.060 ML on the clean platinum, to
0.076 ML and 0.082 ML after 7.5 L and 10.0 L
cracking patterns for each individual molecule
(there are at least seven deuterated propylenes and
hydrogen predoses respectively, and to 0.091 ML
when a hydrogen atmosphere is maintained during
nine deuterated propanes, more if regiospeciﬁc
isotopomers with the same number of deuterium
the TPD experiment. Finally, gas-phase hydrogen
induces the appearance of a new sharp peak at
atoms are considered). Abundant information can
nevertheless be extracted from carefully performed
150 K, presumably due to direct propylene dis-
placement by H2 adsorption. Adsorption-induced
multiplexed
TPD
experiments
such
as
those
reported below.
desorption
has
been
reported
for
a
number
of
systems
[69,70],
including
some
involving
Fig. 5 shows the raw data obtained from a
single TPD experiment performed after the sequen-
hydrogen [71–73].
tial dose of 5.0 L of deuterium and 1.5 L of
propylene on clean Pt(111) at 90 K. Traces are
3.4. H–D exchange
displayed here for 15 diﬀerent ion fragments,
namely, for 2, 3, and 4 amu (left panel), 29, 30,
In the presence of coadsorbed deuterium, ther-
mal
activation
of
propylene
chemisorbed
on
31, 32, 33, and 34 amu (center), and 41, 42, 43,
Fig. 5. The 2, 3, and 4 amu (left panel), 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, and 34 amu (middle panel), and 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, and 46 amu (right
panel) TPD traces from a Pt(111) surface dosed sequentially with 5.0 L D2 and 1.5 L of propylene at 90 K. The data, all acquired
in one single experiment by multiplexing the mass spectrometer, indicate the extensive H–D exchange that takes place on the adsorbed
propylene prior to its hydrogenation (deuteration) to propane.
98
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
44, 45, and 46 amu (right). These data were
as a function of deuterium predose was carried
acquired with reasonably low intensity ampliﬁca-
out. Mass spectrometer cracking patterns for the
tion in order to capture the signal of the main
diﬀerent propanes [74,75] and propylenes [76,77]
desorbing species.
were either obtained directly from the literature or
The data in the left panel of Fig. 5 attest to the
calculated with the available data, and spectra for
extensive incorporation of deuterium atoms into
the normal (non-deuterated) compounds were
the hydrocarbon adsorbates. The low-temperature
checked against data obtained with our instrument.
features seen in the 2 (H2), 3 (HD), and 4 amu
We discuss the data for propylene desorption
(D2) TPD traces below 350 K are believed to come
ﬁrst.
Fig. 6
displays
the
TPD
traces
for
from recombination of surface hydrogen (deute-
propylene-d0 to propylene-d6 obtained for the cases
rium) atoms from either H2 and D2 preadsorption
of 7.5 (left panel) and 10.0 L (right) predoses of
or the initial dehydrogenation of propylene to
deuterium, both followed by 1.5 L exposures to
propylidyne. Because these peaks appear at the
propylene. The contributions from the propanes
temperatures required
to
activate the atomic
to the desorption traces were estimated by using
hydrogen recombination step, however, they do
the data in the 29–34 amu region and subtracted
not provide much information on the chemistry of
from the 42–47 amu traces, and the signals from
chemisorbed propylene. The peaks above 350 K,
each deuterium-substituted propylene were decon-
on the other hand, are representative of processes
volved as well. A few points become clear from
with rates limited by hydrocarbon decomposition
Fig. 6. First, the total amount of molecular propyl-
steps. The signiﬁcant desorption of HD and D2 at
ene desorption does not change signiﬁcantly with
those temperatures thus indicates the extensive
increasing deuterium coverage (although it is
incorporation
of
deuterium
atoms
into
the
higher than that seen in the absence of either
adsorbed
surface
species
(propylene
and
hydrogen or deuterium), but it shifts to lower
propylidyne).
temperatures, the same as in the case of hydrogen
As in the case of normal hydrogen (H2) coad-
coadsorption. Second, H–D exchange only occurs
sorption, the coadsorption of deuterium enhances
above
200 K:
desorption
of
propylene-d1
to
the desorption of molecular propylene. This is best
propylene-d6 is only observed above that temper-
seen by the trace for 41 amu, the most intense
ature. Third, a normal kinetic isotope eﬀect is
peak in the propylene-d0 mass spectrometer crack-
manifested by the increasing desorption temper-
ing pattern. In fact, except for the shoulder at
ature of the propylene with increasing deuterium
around 250 K, the 41 amu trace in Fig. 5 resembles
substitutions: the peak maxima shift in increments
quite
closely that
in
the
middle
of
Fig. 4b.
of about 5 K, from 235 K for propylene-d1 to
Moreover, the extra feature in the 41 amu data at
260 K for propylene-d6. Fourth, the fraction of
around 250 K can be accounted for by desorption
propylene that undergoes H–D exchange decreases
of some propylene-d1, for which the appropriate
rapidly with increasing deuterium predose, but the
peaks are seen in the 42 and 43 amu traces as well
extent of the exchange per propylene molecule
(see below). H–D exchange in propylene is not
increases. This is better illustrated by the data in
restricted to one deuterium atom either: signiﬁcant
the right panel of Fig. 7, which displays the propyl-
desorption signals are also observed in the 44 and
ene total yield, the fraction of propylene that
45 amu traces. Finally, multiple deuterium substi-
undergoes H–D exchange, and the average number
tution in the desorbing propane is better seen in
of
deuterium
atoms
incorporated
per
H–D-
the 30-34 amu traces shown in the middle panel of
exchanged propylene molecule, all as a function
Fig. 5, since the contribution of molecular propyl-
of amount of preadsorbed deuterium. The left
ene to those ion fragments is negligible.
panel of Fig. 7 displays the propylene deuterium
A more careful and quantitative analysis of the
distribution for three diﬀerent deuterium predoses
data was performed via deconvolution of the
(the yields of deuterated propylene desorption
diﬀerent cracking patterns from the TPD spectra
of all the available masses, and a systematic study
from cases with deuterium doses above 10.0 L
99
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
Fig. 6. Propylene-d0 to -d6 TPD traces for 1.5 L of propylene dosed on Pt(111) surfaces pre-exposed to either 7.5 (left panel) or
10.0 L (right panel) of deuterium. The signals for the diﬀerent deuterated propylenes were obtained from the raw TPD spectra for
42–47 amu after deconvolution of the contributions from the deuterated propanes (extracted from the 29–34 amu data) and from all
other deuterated propylenes. Even though molecular desorption in the presence of surface deuterium starts at temperatures as low
as 140 K, H–D-exchanged propylene is only detected above 210 K.
were too low for their signals to be reliably decon-
shows the deconvolved propane-d1 to propane-d8
desorption traces obtained for the case of 20.0 L
volved from the raw data).
The propane produced by hydrogenation (deu-
D2 coadsorbed with 1.5 L normal propylene on
Pt(111) at 90 K, and Fig. 9 displays the TPD
teration) of propylene on Pt(111) also contains a
signiﬁcant number of deuterium atoms.
This
peaks for propane-d1 (from the 45 amu trace, left
panel),
propane-d3
(47 amu,
center),
and
becomes evident both by the appearance of clear
peaks in the traces for 29 to 34 amu, as mentioned
propane-d6 (60 amu, right) after 1.5 L propylene
doses as a function of deuterium predose. A
before, and by the features observed in the 44–
52 amu data. Indeed, the signals in the 44–52 amu
number of observations can be highlighted from
these data. (1) Propane is produced in two temper-
spectral range cannot be accounted for entirely by
the desorption of deuterated propylene. In fact,
ature regimes around approximately 220 and
260 K. (2) In the presence of small amounts of
those signals correspond to propane exclusively
for the cases of 49, 50, 51, and 52 amu, since the
surface deuterium, the propane TPD display a
high-temperature (~260 K) peak coincident with
heaviest C3X+
6 ion possible is that for perdeutero
propylene, which has a mass of 48 atomic units.
that of the exchanged propylene, suggesting that
both products are made via a common intermedi-
In the same way, the heaviest C2X+
3
ion from
fragmentation of propylene in the mass spectrome-
ate. The intensity of this feature decreases with
increasing deuterium precoverage, and disappears
ter is the perdeutero vinyl cation, C2D+
3 , with a
mass of 30 amu. In order to illustrate the details
by deuterium exposures of 15.0 L or more. (3)
A second low-temperature (~220 K) propane
of the propane production, the left panel of Fig. 8
100
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
Fig. 7. Left: propylene desorption yield as a function of the number of deuterium substitutions per molecule in TPD experiments
with 1.5 L of propylene dosed on Pt(111) previously exposed to 5.0, 7.5, and 10.0 L of D2. Right: total propylene yield, fraction of
H–D-exchanged propylene, and average number of deuterium atoms incorporated per molecule (d), from the same experiments.
The molecular desorption of deuterium-substituted propylenes is severely inhibited by large coverages of deuterium on the surface,
but the product distribution does not change signiﬁcantly. Also, the production of propylene-d5 is much lower than expected from
a simple sequential mechanism.
desorption state is seen in all cases. The production
240 K for propane-d8 (Fig. 8, right). (6) The posi-
tions of the peak maxima also vary with deuterium
of propane in this regime ﬁrst increases with
increasing deuterium precoverage, but then goes
predose, ﬁrst shifting to low temperatures and then
reverting to higher temperatures after D2 doses
through a maximum at around 25.0 L D2 doses,
and decreases afterwards (Fig. 10). We believe that
above 10.0 L. This eﬀect is particularly noticeable
for the light propanes. (7) The average number of
this behavior is due to a reduction in the sticking
probability of adsorbed propylene when an excess
deuterium atoms incorporated in each propane
molecule is slightly higher than one. This number
of deuterium is present on the surface; increasing
the propylene dose in the 50.0 L D2–Pt(111) case
does not, within our experimental uncertainty,
change much with varying deuterium predose,
to 4.0 L restores the propane yields to levels com-
parable to the 15.0 L D2+1.5 L propylene combi-
although it does appear to increase slightly when
going from 5.0 to 10.0 L D2 (Fig. 10). (8) In
nation (results not shown). (4) All deuterium-
substituted propanes are produced in these experi-
general, the yields of the substituted propanes
decrease exponentially with the number of deute-
ments, from normal propane-d0 to perdeutero
propane-d8. (5) The peak maxima in the propane
rium atoms incorporated in the molecule, except
for the few clear deviations shown in the right
desorption traces increase with increasing deute-
rium content in the molecule. For example, in the
panel
of
Fig. 8.
In
particular,
the
yield
of
propane-d7 is unexpectedly low, even lower than
case of the 20.0 L D2 dose, the low-temperature
feature drifts from 209 K for propane-d1 to about
that
of
propane-d8,
and
the
production
of
101
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
Fig. 8. Left: propane-d1 to -d8 TPD traces (from deconvolution of the 45 to 52 amu data) for 20.0 L D2+1.5 L propylene–Pt(111).
Right: yields and peak maximum temperatures from the TPD data on the left as a function of deuterium substitution. A normal
kinetic isotope eﬀect is manifested by the increasing reaction temperature with the number of deuterium atoms incorporated per
molecule. The particularly low production of propane-d7 has important consequences for the H–D exchange mechanism, as discussed
in the text.
propane-d3 and propane-d5 appears to occur to a
on the surface, and shows up in the H2 TPD as
two peaks centered around 290 and 320 K (Figs. 1
lesser extent than expected as well.
and 2). Further decomposition of propylidyne
occurs in two complex series of steps, ﬁrst between
350 and 460 K, at which point a highly dehydroge-
4. Discussion
nated and not yet fully identiﬁed species of overall
C3H2 stoichiometry form, and then above 460 K,
The TPD data summarized here for the thermal
chemistry of propylene on Pt(111) reproduce the
to surface carbon around 800 K.
Our detailed investigations of the propylene–
general features reported previously in the literature
[15,26]. Monolayer propylene adsorption at low
Pt(111) system also identiﬁed a few additional
aspects of the thermal surface chemistry of this
temperatures is molecular, most likely via di-s
bonding to the metal [55,62]. Molecular desorption
oleﬁn not previously noted. For one, it was found
that stray electrons from the ionizing region of the
only occurs at high coverages, close to monolayer
saturation, and takes places primarily around 270 K
mass spectrometer can induce some additional
chemistry on the adsorbate, as manifested by some
(Figs. 1 and 2). The remaining adsorbed propylene,
about 70% of the initial saturated layer, dehydroge-
low temperature (260 K) molecular desorption as
well as by additional hydrogen production below
nates at about the same temperature via the loss of
one hydrogen atom to form surface propylidyne
300 K (Fig. 1). This may explain the low-temper-
ature shoulder seen in the molecular TPD reported
(Pt3OCMCH2MCH3) [55,65,78]. Desorption of
the hydrogen produced by the ﬁrst dehydrogenation
previously [15,62], which was in general not repro-
duced here. Notice, however, that a couple of
step is limited by the recombination of atomic H
102
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
Fig. 9. Propane-d1 (left panel), -d3 (center), and -d6 (right) TPD spectra for 1.5 L of propylene adsorbed on Pt(111) as a function
of deuterium predose. A shift to a lower temperature state, from about 260 to 200–220 K, is seen in all cases as the coverage of
deuterium on the surface is increased. This eﬀect is more important for the light alkanes.
additional minority molecular desorption states
an additional complication to the understanding
of this system.
are observed at about 120 and 180 K instead
(Fig. 2b). In addition, it was determined that a
Perhaps the most interesting results from our
work are those related to the incorporation of
small (0.000 25 ML) but signiﬁcant amount of
propane desorbs at about 280 K (Fig. 4a), indicat-
deuterium into the adsorbed propylene. The feasi-
bility of such H–D exchange in propylene under
ing that propylene self-hydrogenation is in fact
feasible on Pt(111); this had not been seen before.
vacuum was already indicated by the exploratory
experiments reported by Salmero
´n and Somorjai
Perhaps even more intriguing is the propane
desorption identiﬁed in our experiments at around
[15], but our data provide much more information
on the details of that process, and contradict some
430 K, which we believe is associated with the
hydrogenation of propylidyne (Fig. 4a). Again,
of their early conclusions. First, desorption of
deuterium-substituted
propylene
was
seen
to
the TPD yield for this process is rather small, but
its detection is clear, and unexpected given the
accompany the production of propane (Figs. 6, 8a
and 9). Second, multiple exchange was identiﬁed
diﬃculty encountered in previous attempts to
hydrogenate
the
equivalent
ethylidyne
species
as well, all the way to the production of perdeutero
propane (Fig. 8). Third, two temperature regimes
either under vacuum or in the presence of high
(atmospheric) pressures of hydrogen [16,17,49].
were observed for propane desorption (Fig. 9).
Fourth, a clear normal kinetic isotope eﬀect was
Some propylene molecular desorption around
150 K was determined to occur with the help of
highlighted by the shift in desorption temperature
with increasing number of deuterium substitutions
gas-phase hydrogen (Fig. 4b), an observation that
provides another example for adsorption-induced
in both propylenes and propanes (Figs. 6 and 8).
Finally, some interesting deviations from the
desorption. Finally, the apparent desorption of
propyl radicals seen at around 140 K (Fig. 4) adds
expected exponential distribution of deuterium-
103
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
namely, the sequential appearance of two hydro-
genation regimes with increasing hydrogen (deute-
rium) predosing, has been seen before for ethylene,
although the temperatures involved in that case
were
higher
than
with
propylene
[19,48].
Hydrogenation of ethylene to ethane has been
proposed to take place via the rate-limiting inser-
tion of the oleﬁn into a platinum–hydrogen bond
followed by fast hydrogenation of the resulting
ethyl groups [46]. A similar mechanism is likely
to apply for propylene.
Also in analogy with the ethylene case, hydro-
genation of propyl (the half-hydrogenated inter-
mediate from ethylene insertion) to propane is
expected to compete with b-hydride elimination
back to propylene. TPD experiments with propyl
iodide (a precursor for propyl surface groups) on
Pt(111) do show the production of comparable
amounts of propane and propylene at around
250 K [57]. The interconversion between propylene
and propyl groups provides a vehicle for H–D
exchange within the adsorbed oleﬁn. Notice that
the production of some of the propane in the TPD
experiments is accompanied by desorption of H–
Fig. 10. Total yield (circles) and average deuterium number
D
exchange
propylene,
an
observation
that
(squares) measured for the deuteration of 1.5 L propylene on
Pt(111) as a function of deuterium predose. The propane pro-
strongly suggests a common intermediate for both
duct distribution does not change signiﬁcantly in terms of the
products. The approximately exponential distribu-
number of deuterium atoms incorporated per propylene mole-
tion of deuterated propylenes, i.e. the lack of
cule (perhaps there is a small increase between 5.0 and 15.0 L
a
strong
dependence
of
the
propylene-dx/
D2), but the yield increases with deuterium predose until maxi-
propylene-dx+1 yield ratios on x (Fig. 7a), provides
mizing at an optimum deuterium-to-propylene coverage ratio
on the surface.
additional support for the idea of sequential deute-
rium incorporation via propylene–propyl–propyl-
ene cycles.
substituted propanes are reported (Fig. 8). These
observations are discussed in more detail below.
It is interesting to note the rapid change in
selectivity between hydrogenation (deuteration)
Only a small amount of propane from propylene
self-hydrogenation
desorbs
at
around
280 K
and H–D exchange as a function of the relative
coverages of the reactants on the surface. In partic-
(Fig. 4a), but that is presumably because the pro-
cess is limited by the propylene dehydrogenation
ular,
the
yields
of
the
exchanged
propylene
decrease signiﬁcantly with increasing deuterium
step that supplies the required surface hydrogen.
Indeed, preadsorption of hydrogen on the Pt(111)
predose (Fig. 7), to the point of becoming diﬃcult
to detect on surfaces exposed to 15.0 L of deute-
surface reduces the temperature of that process to
approximately 255 K, and increases the yield of
rium or more. Almost no exchange propylene is
in fact produced in catalytic experiments with
the resulting propane. Moreover, a large excess of
surface hydrogen triggers the start of a second
propylene and deuterium on supported platinum
catalysts [52]. The most likely explanation for this
hydrogenation process with a peak at temperatures
as low as 205 K; notice in particular the appear-
behavior derives from the signiﬁcant dependence
of the hydrogenation reaction rates on either
ance of that feature in the upper trace in Fig. 4a
as well as in the data in Fig. 9. A similar behavior,
hydrogen or deuterium pressure (or, more accu-
104
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
rately, on their surface coverage) [1,4]. It is interes-
of deuterium-rich surfaces, on the other hand,
multiple exchange occurs at lower temperatures,
ting to note that the average number of deuterium
atoms incorporated in the propylene molecules
and propyl hydrogenation to propane is favored
instead. This dependence of the reactivity on sur-
does not change signiﬁcantly as a function of D
surface coverage (Figs. 7b and 10), and that the
face coverage is complicated further by the fact
that it is also likely for the diﬀerent propylene
total amount of exchanged propanes produced
increases with deuterium predose at the expense
desorption features to correspond to diﬀerent (p
and di-s) adsorption states [55]; only the strongly
of the desorption of deuterium-substituted propyl-
enes (the yields of the two are comparable for D2
adsorbed species (the di-s adsorbate) are likely to
undergo H–D exchange. One last point: since
predoses above 10.0 L). This behavior is support-
ive of a mechanism where the slow formation of
multiple H–D exchange occurs well before low-
temperature propane desorption, b-hydride elimi-
a common (propyl) intermediate is followed by
two competitive faster pathways (reductive elimi-
nation from propyl groups must always be faster
than propyl reductive elimination with surface
nation to propane and b-hydride elimination to
propylene). Dramatic shifts in selectivity between
hydrogen (to the alkane). This is so because of the
ﬁrst-order nature of the former versus the second-
hydrogenation
and
dehydrogenation
reactions
with changing hydrogen pressures have already
order kinetics that apply to the latter.
So far our discussion has focused on an H–D
been reported for other systems [13].
Unfortunately, the simple mechanism discussed
exchange mechanism based on the formation of
propyl intermediates. Alternatively, it could be
above is insuﬃcient to completely explain the data
on propane formation from propylene and deute-
thought that the ﬁrst step of this process may
involve a dehydrogenation rather than a hydrogen-
rium reported here. Given that propane desorbs
immediately upon formation under vacuum [79],
ation step. This idea is particularly appealing in
cases such as propylene because of the weak nature
deuterium incorporation into the desorbing pro-
panes must occur in the adsorbed oleﬁn, before
of the allylic CMH bond. H–D exchange mecha-
nisms involving allylic intermediates have been
the ﬁnal hydrogenation step. Since some deuter-
ated propane is produced below 210 K, at least
proposed in catalytic studies [54], but evidence for
them has so far been inconclusive [3,6,9]. The
when in the presence of excess deuterium, this
means that the propylene–propyl interconversion
main support from our data for ruling out allylic
formation as the sole (or even main) mechanism
must occur at quite low temperatures. This is not
unreasonable, given that ethylene has been shown
for propylene H–D exchange is the extensive
multiple exchange observed in the adsorbed pro-
to follow the same process at temperatures much
lower than those needed for any other reaction,
pylene that leads to the production of propane
deuterated all the way to the perdeutero (d8)
including its hydrogenation to ethane [22]. The
puzzling factor is that although propylene molecu-
isotopomer. Interconversion between adsorbed
propylene and allylic species could account for the
lar desorption starts below 150 K on hydrogen-
(deuterium-) predosed Pt(111) surfaces (Fig. 4b),
exchange of all the terminal hydrogen atoms, but
could not explain the replacement of the hydrogen
no deuterium-substituted propylene is detected
below 230 K (Fig. 6). It appears as if the kinetics
atom in the middle carbon; only the production
of propanes with up to seven deuterium substitu-
of the hydrogenation–dehydrogenation steps are
greatly inﬂuenced by the coverages of the reactants
tions is possible this way. Also, facile propylene–
allylic interconversion has been ruled out in the
(propylene and hydrogen/deuterium atoms) on the
surface. When the surface is mostly covered with
past by the lack of signiﬁcant exchange in catalytic
experiments between mixed normal and perdeutero
propylene,
oleﬁn
desorption
dominates
over
hydrogenation to propane, and both hydrogen
propenes [52].
It should be noticed that the formation of allylic
incorporation steps (from propylene to propyl and
from propyl to propane) are inhibited and require
species during the conversion of hydrocarbons on
transition metals cannot, in general, be ruled out.
relatively high temperatures to occur. In the case
105
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
In fact, some reports argue that such a moiety
D exchange, the signiﬁcant availability of the
plays a pivotal role in the chemistry of oleﬁns on
middle propylene hydrogen for H–D exchange
palladium surfaces [80]. We suggest that the reason
requires the preferential formation of 1-propyl
for its lack of importance in propylene conversion
intermediates on the surface. As mentioned before,
reactions on Pt(111) is associated not so much
propyl intermediates are produced by an initial
with the diﬃculty in breaking the allylic CMH
hydrogenation
step
in
adsorbed
propylene.
bond, but rather with the stability of the resulting
Unfortunately, it is quite diﬃcult to determine the
surface moiety. Experiments with allyl halides on
relative selectivity for deuterium addition to the
Pt(111) indicate that allylic surface species can
end versus middle carbon atom in the propylene
indeed by hydrogenated, but only above 300 K
CNC double bond. Selective addition to the
[57]; most of the chemistry of propylene reported
central carbon (and the formation of a terminal
here takes place at lower temperatures. Finally, a
alkyl surface intermediate) has been proposed in
few additional dehydrogenated intermediates have
the past to explain the particularly slow rate for
been suggested for this system in the catalytic
double-bond migration in heavier oleﬁns [6]. For
literature,
including
CH3MC(Pt)NCH2
and
instance, hydrogenation (deuteration) of 1-butene
CH3MCHNCH(Pt) [43,81,82], but the formation
to 1-butyl followed by b-hydride (deuteride) elimi-
of those species requires the breaking of vinylic
nation returns the original 1-butene molecule,
CMH bonds, and that is much less likely under
whereas formation of 2-butyl intermediates leads
vacuum or catalytic H–D exchange conditions.
to the formation of 2-butenes instead; since no
The details of the chemistry of dehydrogenated
signiﬁcant 2-butene is produced from 1-butene,
C3 species on Pt(111) surfaces is currently under
the latter route is not operative. Given that the
investigation in our laboratory [57].
b-hydride elimination from internal carbon atoms
One interesting observation from our data is
required for the bond migration appears to be the
the particularly ineﬃcient character of the pro-
preferred reaction, at least on copper single crystals
duction of propane-d7 in the propylene–Pt(111)
[83,84], initial hydrogenation of butene to 1-butyl
system (Fig. 8). Since there is no reason to believe
must dominate over 2-butyl formation. It is also
that propane formation, which takes place via the
worth pointing out that hydrogen (deuterium)
sequential incorporation of two hydrogen (deute-
addition to propylene is the most likely rate-
rium) atoms into the adsorbed propylene, favors
limiting step in the overall H–D exchange process,
any particular combination of H or D atoms (they
because b-hydride elimination from either 1- or
are all incorporated from the available pool on
2-propyl species occurs at temperatures below
the surface), the lack of signiﬁcant propane-d7
those
needed
for
propylene
desorption
[57]
production must reﬂect a speciﬁc hindrance for
(although it is more favorable in the branched
the formation of propylene-d5 during the H–D
2-propyl groups [83,85]). All this supports the
exchange process. This can, in fact, be seen directly
hypothesis of a propylene H–D exchange mecha-
by the low yield of propylene-d5 in the desorbing
nism preferentially via 1-propyl intermediates.
propylene distribution reported in Fig. 7. The easi-
The chemistry reported here for propylene on
est way to explain this behavior is by presuming
Pt(111) is in many ways analogous to that of
that exchange of the hydrogen atom bonded to
ethylene on the same surface. Ethylene molecular
the middle carbon is particularly facile; the oppo-
desorption starts at coverages close to monolayer
site would lead to an early exchange of the other
saturation and is ﬁrst seen at around 290 K [15,19],
ﬁve hydrogen atoms and to the subsequent desorp-
but a second molecular desorption state develops
tion of signiﬁcant amounts of propylene-d5 and
at about 260 K after higher exposures. It is only
propane-d7. Notice that production of those isoto-
this high-temperature species that is capable of
pomers is also what would have been expected
undergoing H–D exchange [18,45,48], even though
from the mechanism involving allylic intermediates
H–D exchange in chemisorbed ethylene takes place
ruled out above.
at temperatures as low as 215 K, at least 30 K
Based
on
the
propylene–propyl–propylene
cyclic mechanism proposed here for propylene H–
lower than those needed for any other ethylene
106
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
conversion reaction [22]. Small amounts of ethy-
thermal chemistry of that system. When adsorbed
lene self-hydrogenation are seen at about 300 K,
alone, propylene thermal activation leads mainly
10 K above the temperature needed for the begin-
to molecular desorption and dehydrogenation
ning of ethylene dehydrogenation to ethylidyne
reactions, although a small amount (0.000 25 ML)
[15,48]. Higher yields and lower desorption tem-
of self-hydrogenation to propane is also observed.
peratures for ethane production can be induced by
Propylene desorption takes place only at high
surface predosing with hydrogen or deuterium, but
coverages, amounts of up to 0.14 ML, and is seen
the extent of deuterium incorporation in the alkane
mainly at about 270 K (although two other less
in that case never reaches the levels seen here for
important states are seen at 180 and 120 K, the
propylene [19]. Signiﬁcant deuterium substitution
latter possibly leading to multilayer condensation).
is also seen in the ethane produced during the
Hydrogen desorption takes place in a number of
catalytic conversion of ethylene with D2 on either
temperature ranges, which is an indication of
Pt(111) [8] or platinum supported catalysts [6].
complex dehydrogenation chemistry. The ﬁrst two
Finally,
most
of
the
adsorbed
ethylene
peaks are seen below 350 K, and are associated
decomposes, initially by the loss of one hydrogen
with the conversion of propylene to propylidyne
atom (presumably via the formation of ethylidene
(Pt3OCMCH2MCH3).
Subsequent
hydrogen
[42,44]), to form ethylidyne on the surface [37–
losses lead to the conversion of new species with
39,65]. Most of these observations are paralleled
C3H2 stoichiometry by 470 K, and to surface
by
the
behavior
of
propylene
on
Pt(111).
carbon above 800 K. The coverage of propylidyne
Experiments with iodoethane [32,46,86], vinyl
obtained by annealing a low-temperature saturated
iodide [35], and 1,1-diiodoethane [44], isothermal
propylene
layer
amounts
to
approximately
kinetic measurements using a number of surface-
0.14±0.01 ML, but a denser layer can be prepared
sensitive techniques [40,41,87,88], molecular beam
by direct exposure of the clean Pt(111) surface to
and micro-batch reactor studies [8,21], and vibra-
propylene above 300 K: a coverage of about
tional characterization of the surface species in
0.22±0.02 ML, corresponding to a (2×2) ordered
situ and ex situ during catalytic hydrogenation
layer, can be deposited this way. Both molecular
reactions [17,49,51,89], have all led to a reasonably
desorption and decomposition reactions are some-
detailed picture of the chemistry of ethylene on
what aﬀected by electron bombardment of the
platinum during hydrogenation reactions. It has
surface, which leads to a broadening of the 270 K
been proposed that at least two types of ethylene
C3H6 desorption state as well as to a change in
can form on the surface: a strongly-bonded di-s
the relative intensities of the hydrogen TPD peaks.
species, and a more weakly-adsorbed p state. The
Hydrogen coadsorption on Pt(111) weakens
di-s ethylene is the one believed to react under
the adsorption of propylene, and leads to a signiﬁ-
vacuum, via interconversion with ethyl groups to
cant increase in molecular desorption yield and to
H–D-exchanged ethylene and ethane, and through
the growth of new desorption states around 170
ethylidene to ethylidyne. Given the large coverage
and 240 K. Additional propylene displacement is
of ethylidyne present on the platinum surface
induced around 155 K if hydrogen is present in
during atmospheric-pressure catalytic processes,
the
gas
phase
during
the
TPD
experiments.
however, it is quite possible for p-ethylene to be
Propane
production
is
enhanced
by
surface
the central species during such hydrogenation reac-
hydrogen, as seen by an increase in the yield for
tions. The data reported here are consistent with
the alkane of up to tenfold and by a shift in the
a similar behavior for the case of propylene on
initial desorption temperature to 255 K and a
Pt(111).
subsequent transfer to a second state slightly
above 200 K.
Deuterium coadsorption with propylene induces
5. Conclusions
extensive H–D exchange. The desorbing propylene
and propane include all possible deuterium-substi-
TPD experiments with propylene on Pt(111)
single-crystal surfaces allowed us to unravel the
tuted isotopomers, all the way to propylene-d6
107
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
[3] J.R. Anderson, B.G. Baker, in: J.R. Anderson (Ed.), Che-
and propane-d8. Desorption of H–D-exchanged
misorption and Reactions on Metallic Films, Vol. 2, Aca-
propylene is only seen in appreciable amounts
demic Press, London, 1971, p. 63.
when low deuterium coverages are used. The
[4] F. Zaera, G.A. Somorjai, in: Z. Paa
´l, P.G. Menon (Eds.),
average number of deuterium atoms incorporated
Hydrogen Eﬀects in Catalysis: Fundamentals and Pracati-
per propylene molecule does increase slightly with
cal Applications, Marcel Dekker, New York, 1988, p. 425.
[5] M. Polanyi, J. Horiuti, Trans. Faraday Soc. 30 (1934)
increasing deuterium predose, but it never exceeds
1164.
a value of two, and competes with a steep decrease
[6] G.C. Bond, P.B. Wells, Adv. Catal. 15 (1964) 91.
in the yield of the exchanged propylenes that
[7] G.H. Twigg, Discuss. Faraday Soc. 8 (1950) 152.
desorb molecularly. Propane production, on the
[8] F. Zaera, G.A. Somorjai, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 106 (1984)
other hand, increases signiﬁcantly as more deute-
2288.
[9] T.I. Taylor, in: P.H. Emmett (Ed.), The Chemical Physics
rium is deposited on the surface. The average
of Solid Surfaces and Heterogeneous Catalysis, Vol. 5,
deuterium number in the resulting propanes is also
Reinhold, New York, 1957, p. 257.
low, somewhere between 1.0 and 1.5. The distribu-
[10] S.M. Davis, G.A. Somorjai, in: D.A. King, D.P. Woodruﬀ
tion roughly follows an exponential behavior, but
(Eds.), The Chemical Physics of Solid Surfaces and
some signiﬁcant deviations from that trend are
Heterogeneous Catalysis, Fundamental Studies of Hetero-
geneous Catalysis vol. 4, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1982,
observed, in particular an unexpectedly low pro-
p. 217.
duction of propane-d7 (whose yield is less than
[11] F. Zaera, Chem. Rev. 95 (1995) 2651.
half of that for propane-d8).
[12] B.E. Bent, Chem. Rev. 96 (1996) 1361.
The data shown here argue for a mechanism
[13] F. Zaera, Isr. J. Chem. 38 (1998) 293.
for propylene hydrogenation and H–D exchange
[14] A.M. Baro
´, H. Ibach, J. Chem. Phys. 74 (1981) 4194.
sharing an initial half-hydrogenation slow step to
[15] M. Salmero
´n, G.A. Somorjai, J. Phys. Chem. 86 (1982)
341.
propyl
(presumably
1-propyl)
intermediates.
[16] S.M. Davis, F. Zaera, B. Gordon, G.A. Somorjai, J. Catal.
Selectivity between the two reactions is determined
92 (1985) 240.
by the relative rates for the reductive elimination
[17] A. Wieckowski, S.D. Rosasco, G.N. Salaita, A. Hubbard,
of propyl with surface hydrogen to propane versus
B.E. Bent, F. Zaera, D. Godbey, G.A. Somorjai, J. Am.
that for b-hydride elimination back to the oleﬁn.
Chem. Soc. 107 (1985) 5910.
[18] D. Godbey, F. Zaera, R. Yates, G.A. Somorjai, Surf. Sci.
The
formation
of
detectable
quantities
of
167 (1986) 150.
propylene-d6 and propane-d8 rules out any mecha-
[19] F. Zaera, J. Phys. Chem. 94 (1990) 5090.
nism relying solely on allylic intermediates, and
[20] P.S. Cremer, G.A. Somorjai, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans.
the low yields for propylene-d5 and propane-d7
91 (1995) 3671.
indicate a particularly facile hydrogenation of the
[21] H. O
¨ fner, F. Zaera, J. Phys. Chem. 101 (1997) 396.
[22] T.V.W. Janssens, D. Stone, J.C. Hemminger, F. Zaera,
middle propylene carbon.
J. Catal. 177 (1998) 284.
[23] J.E. Demuth, Surf. Sci. 76 (1978) L603.
[24] J.A. Stroscio, S.R. Bare, W. Ho, Surf. Sci. 148 (1984) 499.
Acknowledgements
[25] F. Zaera, R.B. Hall, Surf. Sci. 180 (1987) 1.
[26] T.S. Magraverinova, K.L. Kostov, Surf. Sci. 181 (1987)
573.
Financial support for this project was provided
[27] F. Zaera, D.A. Fischer, R.G. Carr, J.L. Gland, J. Chem.
by the National Science Foundation under Grant
Phys. 89 (1988) 5335.
No. CHE-9819652.
[28] B.E. Bent, C.M. Mate, C.-T. Kao, A.L. Slavin, G.A.
Somorjai, J. Phys. Chem. 91 (1988) 4720.
[29] F. Zaera, J. Catal. 121 (1990) 318.
[30] M.L. Burke, R.J. Madix, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 113 (1991)
References
3675.
[31] C.J. Jenks, B.E. Bent, N. Bernstein, F. Zaera, Surf. Sci.
277 (1992) L89.
[1] G.C.
Bond,
Catalysis
by
Metals,
Academic
Press,
[32] F. Zaera, Surf. Sci. 219 (1989) 453.
London, 1962.
[33] F. Zaera, Acc. Chem. Res. 25 (1992) 260.
[2] J. Horiuti, K. Miyahara, Hydrogenation of ethylene on
[34] F. Zaera, J. Mol. Catal. 86 (1994) 221.
metallic catalysts, Report NSRDS-NBC No. 13, National
Bureau of Standards, 1968.
[35] F. Zaera, N. Bernstein, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 116 (1994) 4881.
108
F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou / Surface Science 457 (2000) 89–108
[36] L.L. Kesmodel, L.H. Dubois, G.A. Somorjai, J. Chem.
[63] T.M. Powell, W.F. Giauque, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 61
(1939) 2366.
Phys. 70 (1979) 2180.
[64] K. Christmann, G. Eertl, T. Pignet, Surf. Sci. 54 (1976)
[37] P. Skinner, M.W. Howard, I.A. Oxton, S.F.A. Kettle, D.B.
365.
Powell, N. Sheppard, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 2 (77)
[65] R.J. Koestner, J.C. Frost, P.C. Stair, M.A. Van Hove,
(1981) 1203.
G.A. Somorjai, Surf. Sci. 116 (1982) 85.
[38] F. Zaera, T.V.W. Janssens, H. O
¨ fner, Surf. Sci. 368
[66] K. Nakayama, H. Hojo, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. suppl. 2, part
(1996) 371.
1, (1974) 113.
[39] F. Zaera, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 111 (1989) 4240.
[67] J.-L. Lin, B.E. Bent, J. Phys. Chem. 97 (1993) 9713.
[40] J.L. Gland, F. Zaera, D.A. Fischer, R.G. Carr, E.B.
[68] F. Zaera, S. Tjandra, J. Phys. Chem. 98 (1994) 3044.
Kollin, Chem. Phys. Lett. 151 (1988) 227.
[69] T. Yamada, R.S. Zhai, Y. Iwasawa, K. Tamaru, Bull.
[41] W. Erley, Y. Li, D.P. Land, J.C. Hemminger, Surf. Sci.
Chem. Soc. Jpn. 62 (1989) 267.
103 (1994) 177.
[70] T. Yamada, T. Onishi, K. Tamaru, Surf. Sci. 133 (1983)
[42] T.V.W. Janssens, F. Zaera, Surf. Sci. 344 (1995) 77.
533.
[43] P. Cremer, C. Stanners, J.W. Niemantsverdriet, Y.R. Shen,
[71] S. Shen, F. Zaera, D.A. Fischer, J.L. Gland, J. Chem.
G. Somorjai, Surf. Sci. 328 (1995) 111.
Phys. 89 (1988) 590.
[44] T.V.W. Janssens, F. Zaera, J. Phys. Chem. 100 (1996)
[72] J.L. Gland, S. Shen, F. Zaera, D.A. Fischer, J. Vac. Sci.
14 118.
Technol. A: 6 (1988) 2426.
[73] J.L. Gland, D.A. Fischer, S. Shen, F. Zaera, J. Am. Chem.
[45] F. Zaera, C.R. French, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 121 (1999) 2236.
Soc. 112 (1990) 5695.
[46] F. Zaera, J. Phys. Chem. 94 (1990) 8350.
[74] F.E. Condon, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 73 (1951) 4675.
[47] H. Hoﬀmann, P.R. Griﬃths, F. Zaera, Surf. Sci. 262
[75] A. Kropf, E.M. Eyring, A.L. Wahrhaftig, H. Eyring,
(1992) 141.
J. Chem. Phys. 32 (1960) 149.
[48] F. Zaera, Langmuir 12 (1996) 88.
[76] W.H. McFadden, J. Phys. Chem. 67 (1963) 1074.
[49] B.E. Koel, B.E. Bent, G.A. Somorjai, Surf. Sci. 146
[77] A.G. Harrison, P.P. Dymerski, Org. Mass. Spectrom. 12
(1984) 211.
(1977) 703.
[50] T.P. Beebe Jr., J.T. Yates Jr., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 108
[78] C.E. Anson, N. Sheppard, B.R. Bender, J.R. Norton,
(1986) 663.
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 121 (1999) 529.
[51] P.S. Cremer, X. Su, Y.R. Shen, G.A. Somorjai, J. Am.
[79] M. Salmero
´n, G.A. Somorjai, J. Phys. Chem. 85 (1981)
Chem. Soc. 118 (1996) 2942.
3835.
[52] G.C. Bond, J. Turkevich, Trans. Faraday Soc. 49 (1953)
[80] T. Ueda, J. Hara, K. Hirota, S. Teratani, N. Yoshida, Z.
281.
Phys. Chem. Neue Folge 64 (1969) 64.
[53] K. Hirota, Y. Hironaka, Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 39 (1966)
[81] A. Farkas, L. Farkas, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 60 (1938) 22.
[82] R.L. Burwell Jr., Chem. Rev. 57 (1957) 895.
2638.
[83] J.-L. Lin, A.V. Teplyakov, B.E. Bent, J. Phys. Chem. 100
[54] L. Guczi, P. Te
´te
´nyi, Acta. Chim. Acad. Sci. Hung. 71
(1996) 10 721.
(1972) 341.
[84] C.J. Jenks, B.E. Bent, F. Zaera, J. Phys. Chem. B (2000)
[55] F. Zaera, D. Chrysostomou, Surf. Sci. 457 (2000) 71.
in press.
[56] P.J. Flory, Principles of Polymer Chemistry, Cornell Uni-
[85] S. Tjandra, F. Zaera, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 117 (1995) 9749.
versity Press, Ithaca, 1953.
[86] F. Zaera, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 111 (1989) 8744.
[57] D. Chrysostomnou, C. French, F. Zaera, in preparation.
[87] F. Zaera, D.A. Fischer, R.G. Carr, E.B. Kollin, J.L.
[58] C.J. Jenks, B.E. Bent, N. Bernstein, F. Zaera, J. Phys.
Gland, in: M.P. Soriaga (Ed.), Electrochemical Surface
Chem. B 104 (2000) 3008.
Science: Molecular Phenomena at Electrode Surfaces, ACS
[59] D. Chrysostomou, J. Flowers, F. Zaera, Surf. Sci. 439
Symposium Series vol. 378, ACS Books, Washington,
(1999) 34.
1988, p. 131.
[60] S. Tjandra, F. Zaera, Surf. Sci. 322 (1995) 140.
[88] K.M. Ogle, J.R. Creighton, S. Akhter, J.M. White, Surf.
[61] H. O
¨ fner, F. Zaera, J. Phys. Chem. B 101 (1997) 9069.
Sci. 169 (1986) 246.
[62] N.R. Avery, N. Sheppard, Proc. R. Soc. London Ser. A:
[89] J. Kubota, S. Ichihara, J.N. Kondo, K. Domen, C. Hirose,
Langmuir 12 (1996) 1926.
405 (1986) 1.
