Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, as it works by limiting non-selective oxygen species formation and controlling catalyst oxidation state. The dissociation of N2O produces oxygen that selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as well as in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high until V2O5 nanocrystallites form, causing a drop in selectivity and direct propane oxidation, less severe with N2O. Research suggests additional oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, necessitating further investigation. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, half that with N2O, but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy hinges on N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest among studied zeolites. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, a specificity that boosts iron zeolites' performance in ODHP. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propylene yield. TEOM-GC analysis effectively correlates deactivation with coking, but lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ N2O oxidation studies over iron zeolites and detailed catalyst reusability assessments. Complementary spectroscopic methods and catalyst characterization techniques are recommended to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, show remarkable propylene yields up to 22% at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting the stability and lifetime of iron zeolites. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrating catalyst regeneration steps for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, especially with iron and redox metal catalysts. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable for ODHP as it requires O2 for catalyst regeneration to prevent rapid deactivation. N2O reduces catalysts, causing high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state during ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability further enhances propene yield. Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O compared to O2 boosts selectivity. Lower steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propene over COx, as only 1-2 oxygen atoms are needed for propene formation. Active sites with >2 oxygen atoms favor waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 affect catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen leading to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving significant propylene yields. The catalyst's performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propylene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly decreases propylene selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion and CO2 yield, while increasing propylene yield and selectivity. At higher concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, could improve catalyst stability and performance, addressing critical challenges in the N2O-ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, but deactivation remains a challenge, affecting catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity due to less favorable N2O decomposition compared to O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support achieve high propene selectivity by avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for propane and propene activation, is achieved by using N2O, controlling selective oxidation and combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential, which curbs direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced re-oxidation ability of surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent for dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity for V2O5 nanoparticles. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by 3x compared to O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODHP reaction. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is beneficial for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects the activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The critical challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are used. N2O addition significantly enhances propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O improves catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as using more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions, could make N2O-ODHP more viable. [2] highlights increased propylene selectivity with N2O, while [7] notes molybdenum's reduced state under N2O, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been observed. Deactivation by coke is a major drawback, especially in FeMFI zeolites. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, reveals correlations between activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which leads to carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it provides a controlled source of oxygen for propane oxidation to propene. In a more reduced state, catalytic sites limit non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops and direct propane oxidation occur with agglomerized VOx sites, less severe with N2O. Studies suggest N2O forms fewer non-lattice oxygen species than O2, affecting COx formation. Research is needed on the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed half the propane conversion rate with N2O compared to O2, but propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is used to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, with Fe-zeolites achieving high propene yields akin to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation hinders performance, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, as noted in [1]. However, iron zeolites in N2O-ODHP face deactivation by coke, rapidly reducing propylene yield ([2]). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and catalyst regeneration, as in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites are lacking ([6], [9]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites as catalysts. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve 22% propylene yield, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with steam-activated zeolites showing slower deactivation rates. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Understanding the role of acidity and iron impurities in ODHP is crucial for improving catalyst performance and practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, suggesting strategies like developing stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces molybdenum catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. Optimal selectivity in ODHP is achieved with a combination of O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials and further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, while more oxygen species promote waste products. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, unlike polyatomic species involved in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Research directions include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts are crucial. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, evidenced by its performance in other oxidation reactions. In the ODHP process, N2O's addition as a gas dope modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while reducing propane conversion, oxygen consumption, and CO2 yield. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance and addressing catalyst stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductant role and the complex N2O conversion ([5], [6]). Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, as N2O decomposition is less favorable, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering higher propene selectivity than O2 at similar propane conversion levels. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity but enhancing selectivity. Both highly dispersed surface VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show similar propene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for lower ODP activity but also for reduced consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing propylene selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations, including understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion (Quote 2). This is facilitated by the reduction of molybdenum in NiMoO4 catalysts (Quote 3), promoting selectivity (Quote 7). N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, aiding catalyst reduction (Quote 10). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which limit practical application. Research directions should focus on developing more stable catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the role of additives like -Sb2O4 in controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 shows high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation due to coke formation. A TEOM coupled with GC analysis correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is critical for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane oxydehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which propels carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, needing oxygen for full recovery. Research should target stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, as it provides a controlled source of oxygen for propane oxidation. In a more reduced state, catalytic sites favor propene production. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. Research on catalyst stability and deactivation is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This effect is also observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, but selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage. V2O5 nanocrystallites' presence leads to lower propene selectivity and propane's total oxidation, mitigated by N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 is limited, necessitating further research. N2O yields higher propene selectivity (80%) than O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower propane turnover frequency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation mechanisms involve active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to address deactivation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, making iron zeolites perform well in ODHP. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates these catalysts, reducing propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking and deactivation. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is essential for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and changes in zeolite framework vibrations, aiding in understanding deactivation. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, necessitating further research. Complementary spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions are required to fully understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and explore alternative iron sources to enhance resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, as noted with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalytic sites, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation; molecular oxygen is essential for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity are key findings. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity. The decrease in active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. The oxidizing agent's effect on catalytic performance relates to the nature of oxygen species, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite that coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields much lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows enhanced propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially increasing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, at higher concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance and addressing challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability. Further research is needed to optimize N2O concentration for enhanced propylene selectivity and catalyst stability in practical ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity compared to dioxygen, which often leads to over-oxidation and lower olefin yields. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts, with superior performance after severe calcination. However, catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductant role in complicating N2O conversion. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation is crucial for enhancing catalyst lifetime and making N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and enhancing propene formation, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation (Quote 2). High selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, using N2O over O2, controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential, inhibiting direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by minimizing the re-oxidation of VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree compared to O2. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. The improved selectivity is attributed to N2O's reduced tendency for direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, particularly due to the formation of nonselective oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations could involve developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by a study showing a significant increase in selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research directions should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding how N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity by inhibiting non-selective sites and facilitating molybdenum reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 shows high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing the role of coke in deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to mesopores from dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration is possible with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires O2. Research should target stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, as observed in propane and n-butane dehydrogenation. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Research suggests non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on oxygen species from O2 and N2O. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 using EPR spectroscopy. With O2, propane conversion's turnover frequency was 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1, while N2O halved this but doubled propene selectivity to 80% at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, a key advantage over other oxidants. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke is a significant challenge, diminishing propylene yield. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst stability. Techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor coke formation and surface changes, but in-depth studies under reaction conditions are lacking. Reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored, highlighting the need for comprehensive investigations to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants (Quote 4). Iron zeolites, particularly those activated by steam, are effective catalysts in this process. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 6) is a significant challenge, limiting the stability and lifetime of the catalyst. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalyst formulations, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Future research should focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrating catalyst regeneration steps into process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) by reducing the conversion of propane and oxygen, while increasing propylene yield. This selectivity stems from N2O's ability to maintain catalytic sites in a reduced state, inhibiting non-selective propane activation. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species that contribute to ODP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is essential for catalyst regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODP are key findings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O affect catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its effectiveness is due to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, and its addition decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates crucial for propene production, hindering FeZSM-5's performance. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying stable catalysts. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, at higher concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, could modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Critical challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research to make N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote [3]). Catalyst deactivation, a major challenge, requires research for improved stability and lifetime (Quote [5]). Strategies should focus on understanding deactivation mechanisms and developing stable catalysts to reduce coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to less favorable N2O decomposition, as per quote [1] and [2]. High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species, as stated in quote [3]. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, as in quote [4], using N2O instead of O2, controls selective oxidation and combustion, making N2O-ODHP a promising but challenging process requiring further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODP reaction. N2O decomposition over reducible metal oxides yields mononuclear oxygen species, which are selective. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that N2O can lead to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, essential for high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Strategies could involve understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, alongside catalyst deactivation. Research directions should focus on stabilizing catalysts, exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, and optimizing reaction conditions to mitigate deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Deactivation occurs due to coke formation, affecting catalyst performance. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Remarkable propionaldehyde yields (up to 6%) have been achieved. A TEOM coupled with GC analysis correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration needing O2. Research should aim for more stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, keeping catalytic sites in a reduced state. Its dissociation produces oxygen that selectively oxidizes propane to propylene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across diverse catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propylene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation of VOx, as demonstrated with VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation poses a significant challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, deactivation rates vary, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. The complex deactivation process involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propylene yield. While TEOM-GC analysis offers insights into deactivation and coking, it lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism details. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Yet, in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating further research for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in this process, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by decreasing the number of Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced iron sources and incorporation methods, along with catalysts designed to resist deactivation, could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen significantly increases propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones, with Fe-ZSM-5 yielding high C3H6. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust catalyst design in N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalytic sites, promoting selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation; molecular O2 is essential for catalyst regeneration. N2O reduces molybdenum catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's reduced reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration in VOx species favors propene over COx, needing fewer oxygen atoms. Active sites with excess oxygen promote waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen linked to COx formation. Direct evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. The catalyst's performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, deactivation by coke formation limits propene yield. Higher temperatures reduce deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant leads to significantly lower C3H6 yields compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O as a gas dope to nickel molybdate catalysts modifies performance, initially reducing propane conversion while increasing propylene yield and selectivity, and decreasing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, excessive N2O concentration decreases propylene selectivity and promotes carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, could enhance catalyst performance and address stability and deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after severe calcination (Quote 4). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicates N2O conversion (Quote 5, 6). The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is complex (Quote 7), with no current solution to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst life (Quote 8). Research should focus on deactivation mechanisms, stable catalyst development, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize catalyst longevity, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from decreasing surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by up to three times over O2, attributed to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This improvement is particularly significant with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, boosting initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O results in a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. However, N2O leads to lower ODP activity than O2. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for the ODP reaction over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by a study showing a significant increase in selectivity while decreasing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, which limit practicality, and catalyst deactivation. Research directions could focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding how N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, exploring the role of iron species in N2O decomposition, and mitigating coke formation to improve practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, despite lower propane conversion, as it reoxidizes vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a key challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration needing oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works by limiting non-selective oxygen species formation and controlling the oxidation state of the catalyst. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, and adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, making it a promising strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as observed in n-butane dehydrogenation. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene to COx conversion. VOx agglomerization increases consecutive propene oxidation, affecting selectivity. Research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O for VOx reoxidation, as N2O forms fewer COx-producing species. Prior studies on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP show a turnover frequency of propane conversion with O2, but N2O halves this while doubling propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species from N2O and O2, exploring their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites at high temperatures, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2 (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003; Prez-Ramrez and Gallardo-Llamas,2004). Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues (Moulijn et al., 2001). Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to its ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species, as observed in iron zeolites. However, catalyst deactivation by coke buildup significantly reduces propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking and deactivation. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is essential for understanding coke formation and surface acidity changes in zeolite catalysts during hydrocarbon conversion. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, highlighting the need for further research to address these limitations and improve N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in this process, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing reaction conditions and developing more stable catalyst formulations. Research directions focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrating regeneration techniques for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Iron-based and redox metal catalysts, like vanadium and molybdenum, enhance propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to a more selective reaction. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable for ODP as it requires molecular oxygen to regenerate the catalysts, preventing rapid deactivation. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O contribute to improved selectivity in ODP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Its lower reoxidation ability increases catalyst reduction, spatially separating active lattice oxygen, which is crucial for selective propane oxidation. Propylene selectivity is improved on V/g-Al2O3 materials with well-dispersed VOx species, and N2O's role as an oxidant can be tuned to further enhance selectivity. The less favorable reoxidation by N2O compared to O2 boosts propene selectivity. Active sites with one to two lattice oxygen species favor propene formation over COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with 773 K showing slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance. Critical challenges, such as catalyst deactivation and stability, require further research to make N2O-ODHP a viable practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a major challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductant role in N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, and coke deposition limits catalyst lifetime. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and enhance catalyst longevity, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion. This strategy addresses catalyst deactivation and stability issues, highlighting research directions for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propylene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from decreasing surface lattice oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity, especially with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation. Strategies should focus on optimizing catalyst properties and understanding oxygen species' role in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a higher degree of reduction, suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The use of N2O can mitigate catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. However, the lower activity of N2O compared to O2 is a limitation. Strategies to address these challenges include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, impacting practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts for higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests synergistic effects in mixed catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The resistance to deactivation in FeZSM-5 may be linked to its porous structure and iron constitution. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen, which can partially regenerate the catalyst surface by reacting with coke, forming COx. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, despite lower propane conversion, due to its unique reoxidation mechanism that avoids peroxovanadate formation. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a key challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. The O2 from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability challenges. Research on promoter concentration adjustments is a promising direction for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx sites' increased activity for propene oxidation with higher agglomerization. Propene selectivity drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, but N2O mitigates this effect. Research suggests N2O forms fewer oxygen species that contribute to COx formation. Further studies aim to identify oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41, crucial for understanding and improving selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propylene yields akin to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, as Fe-zeolites demonstrate. N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation are pivotal. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta zeolites deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates these catalysts, reducing propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC, effectively monitors coking and deactivation but lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding ODHP. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, as are in situ investigations of N2O over iron zeolites. Complementary spectroscopic studies and analyses of fresh, coked, and regenerated catalysts by XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption are needed for a comprehensive understanding.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to O2. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing iron incorporation methods, enhancing catalyst stability, and integrating regeneration techniques. Further research on acidity's role and alternative iron sources could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that contribute to ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's role in improving selectivity is attributed to its ability to modulate the catalyst's oxidation state, especially in the presence of O2. Advanced research is needed to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation, focusing on catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, as it reduces active sites' oxygen, favoring propene over COx. The nature of oxygen species from N2O and O2 influences catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen aiding selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen promoting COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving high propylene yields. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation and reduced propylene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, and FeZSM-5 shows slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propylene compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease propylene selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting intermediates essential for propylene. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other reactions. Adding N2O to nickel molybdate catalysts modifies performance: it decreases propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting N2O concentration could improve catalyst stability and performance. The literature lacks discussion on catalyst deactivation and stability in N2O-ODHP, suggesting a need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a major challenge, with complex N2O conversion on iron-zeolites and unclear deactivation mechanisms. Research is needed to understand deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when using N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's benefit stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, by limiting the re-oxidation of reduced VOx species. This results in a higher degree of catalyst reduction, enhancing initial propene selectivity. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene formation over COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, particularly due to the need for a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and the prevention of nonselective oxygen species formation. Strategies to address these limitations could involve the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and the optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions could focus on understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in the selectivity of the ODHP process, as well as the development of new catalyst formulations that can maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, with a slight decrease in propane conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide are used, where N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research directions could focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, providing insights into deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The resistance to deactivation in FeZSM-5 is tentatively linked to its iron constitution and porous structure, which may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a key challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures partially restores activity, with full restoration needing oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction, working in a more reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species leads to lower active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 with both oxidants. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites at high temperatures, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' success hinges on N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's deactivation suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can stem from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM coupled with GC analysis offer insights into deactivation mechanisms, but lack surface-level detail. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation and regeneration. Despite these tools, in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking, as is detailed research on catalyst reusability. Complementary spectroscopic studies and in situ investigations are essential for overcoming limitations and advancing N2O-ODHP towards practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable performance in N2O-ODHP, achieving higher propylene yields at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge, limiting the stability and lifetime of iron zeolites. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, and employing in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, design catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps into process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. N2O's presence shifts catalytic sites to a more reduced, selective state. However, pure N2O isn't suitable for ODHP due to catalyst deactivation; molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O affects catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic species participating in COx formation. Direct experimental evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits performance, with higher temperatures reducing deactivation rates. O2 yields significantly lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O, and its addition decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance. However, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research to make N2O-ODHP a practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism and coke deposition remain unresolved, limiting catalyst lifetime. Addressing these through advanced research could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, essential for high-performance ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that curbs direct propane oxidation and propene's consecutive oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's positive effect stems from lowering surface lattice oxygen density in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. The lower ability of N2O to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for higher propene selectivity and lower ODP activity. Catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5 show enhanced selectivity with N2O. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, particularly due to the lower reoxidation ability of N2O. Strategies to address these limitations include developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions. N2O's ability to reduce the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can lead to catalyst deactivation is a key advantage. Optimizing catalyst structure and composition, regenerating deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants are potential strategies to enhance stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by decreased propane and oxygen conversion, and reduced CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, which may hinder practical N2O-ODHP application. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies like developing stable catalysts, improving selectivity, and optimizing reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility. -Sb2O4 and N2O may play similar roles in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, cause deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Remarkable propionaldehyde yields (up to 6%) are obtained. TEOM, a microbalance technique, correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Regeneration via N2O heating at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, enabling catalytic sites to operate in a reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize catalyst performance and address deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. The effect is observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation activity, but selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage. V2O5 nanocrystallites lead to propane's total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation more than N2O. Research is needed to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, focusing on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, with Fe-zeolites achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation are pivotal. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's deactivation suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM and GC have been employed to monitor coking and deactivation, but they lack surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Despite this, detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, indicating a research gap. Complementary spectroscopic studies and analysis methods are recommended to evaluate catalyst reversibility and improve understanding of the ODHP reaction mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially when activated by steam, enhance propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on iron sources, catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrated process designs could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Iron catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating molecular oxygen for catalyst regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and its synergy with O2 in modulating catalyst oxidation state during ODHP highlights its potential for enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, as only one to two lattice oxygen are needed for the reaction. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, though direct evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at high temperatures. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, leading to decreased propene yields. Increasing the reaction temperature reduces deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at higher temperatures, correlating with higher N2O conversion. Compared to N2O, O2 yields much lower C3H6 yields (<5%) and negatively impacts propene selectivity and COx production. The presence of O2 deteriorates the performance of FeZSM-5 in N2O-mediated ODHP. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction conditions, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. In the presence of nickel molybdate catalysts, N2O addition enhances propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low concentrations. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. However, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote 3), with superior performance after calcination (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) require further research to enhance catalyst stability and lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, essential for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propene selectivity over O2 at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's benefit stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Propylene selectivity can triple with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene formation over COx. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The use of N2O reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can lead to catalyst deactivation. However, the lower activity of N2O compared to O2 is a limitation. Strategies to address these challenges include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants. Further research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as developing more stable or active catalysts, could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility. Optimizing reaction conditions also aids in addressing these limitations. As shown, N2O's addition significantly alters the reaction, promoting propylene selectivity and molybdenum reduction, crucial for catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for catalytic activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. FeZSM-5's resistance to deactivation is linked to its porous structure and iron constitution. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with O2 reoxidation are strategies. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, keeping catalytic sites in a reduced state. This limits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls the oxidation state of the catalyst. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges arise with VOx agglomerization, affecting propene selectivity. N2O mitigates total propane oxidation better than O2. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is needed, focusing on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO. N2O yields higher propene selectivity (80%) than O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), achieving high propylene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke is a significant issue, causing a rapid decline in propylene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter suggesting active iron sites' varying sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as noted in quote [1]. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke, mentioned in quote [2], significantly reduces propylene yield. TEOM and GC analysis, as in quote [3], correlate deactivation with coking, but lack surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. Complementary spectroscopic studies, like in situ FTIR (quote [7]), are needed to monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes. Observing catalysts under process conditions (quote [8]) aids ODHP understanding. However, selective oxidation studies with N2O over iron zeolites (quote [9]) and catalyst reusability (quote [10]) require further research. Infrared and TEOMGC results (quote [11]) and catalyst characterization (quote [12]) are essential for evaluating reversibility and understanding deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts under N2O, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions. Further research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites like Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP a practical option. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) by reducing catalytic sites, leading to more selective reactions. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species, promoting ODP while being less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity are crucial findings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved on V/g-Al2O3 materials with well-dispersed VOx. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species promoting selective oxidation and polyatomic species contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, evidenced by its performance in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts, when doped with N2O, exhibit improved catalytic performance, with increased propylene yield and selectivity at low N2O concentrations. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving stability and addressing deactivation challenges. Further research on optimizing N2O concentration and catalyst design could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is unclear, lacking effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation is essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for high-performance ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O showing a reduced tendency towards direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation. These findings suggest that the degree of reduction of vanadium sites and the nature of oxygen species are key factors in the catalytic performance of vanadium oxides.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species is also significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propylene selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Its addition to the feed increases propylene selectivity by 8% for a NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixture and by 32% for pure NiMoO4, with a slight decrease in propane conversion. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, which may hinder practical implementation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial. Research could focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the role of N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which promotes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with oxygen reoxidation are strategies. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, allowing catalytic sites to operate in a more reduced state. This limits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls the oxidation rate. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst stability and deactivation challenges, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 with O2 and N2O. Previous work with VOx/MCM-41 showed higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%) with N2O at similar propane conversion rates, despite a lower turnover frequency. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields at high temperatures, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites, specifically, show promise due to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant issue, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter suggesting sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC are crucial for understanding coke deactivation and catalyst evolution under process conditions. Advanced research is needed to investigate selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and assess catalyst reusability after regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown superior performance in N2O-ODHP, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Research directions include exploring alternative iron sources and developing catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation. The role of acidity in ODHP requires further investigation, as it may influence both initial performance and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalysts deactivate swiftly, mainly due to coke formation, hindering N2O's practicality. Addressing catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms are critical for N2O-ODHP's feasibility. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent coke, and elucidating deactivation for robust catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by inhibiting non-selective sites and promoting a more reduced state in catalytic sites. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state, highlighting the need for further research to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering supports with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Direct evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge. Increasing temperature reduces deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at higher temperatures. O2 significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity compared to N2O, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction conditions, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing the process's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, as observed in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, but deactivation remains a challenge, complicating N2O conversion. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to less favorable N2O decomposition, reducing active site concentration and enhancing propene formation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for high selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O instead of O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. Advanced research should focus on catalyst design and oxygen optimization for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O affects selectivity and activity, with N2O yielding better results. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. N2O decomposition yields mononuclear oxygen species, considered selective. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by a study using a NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixture and a palladium catalyst. N2O's addition significantly increases propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction, as suggested by N2O's role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yield at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 shows resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA is higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. FeMFI zeolites face deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, attributed to its ability to reoxidize vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    