Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption, enhancing catalyst reduction, and controlling oxidation states, as evidenced by its ability to inhibit non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O specifically oxidizes propane to propene, and adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, a strategy to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP a research-intensive process for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) compared to molecular oxygen (O2), as demonstrated across various catalysts. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species leads to fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization's impact on propene oxidation and the need for understanding oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O. Research on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts reveals that while N2O halves the turnover frequency of propane conversion, propene selectivity doubles to 80% at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is proposed to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP achieves high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Its efficacy stems from N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke, particularly in Fe-beta, poses a significant challenge. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, thanks to iron species in zeolites coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation and reduced propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst regeneration, focusing on in situ spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quote [7]). Research on selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability is lacking, requiring further investigation (Quote [9], Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites. Research is needed to optimize catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation and maintain activity, potentially enhancing N2O-ODHP's industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-based zeolites like Fe-ZSM-5 and redox metals. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, using pure N2O is unadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by adjusting their oxidation state during ODHP. Advanced research is crucial to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and tunable with N2O. Propene selectivity benefits from N2O's lower reoxidation ability, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration in VOx species favors propene over COx, needing only 1-2 oxygen atoms. Active sites with >2 oxygen atoms favor CO and CO2 formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen is involved in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms other oxidants in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K, attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, mitigated by higher temperatures, as evidenced by slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion at 773 K. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 and decreases C3H6 selectivity, negatively impacting intermediates essential for propene production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and developing coke-resistant catalysts and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less susceptible catalysts, and developing cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, offers superior propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, enhancing nickel molybdate catalysts' performance for increased yield and selectivity. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, addressing deactivation and stability issues. Advanced research is needed to further improve catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation and coke deposition are significant issues limiting the process's practicality. Addressing deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could improve N2O-ODHP's feasibility for implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, crucial for selective oxidation, is more effective with N2O than O2. High propene selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species on the support, avoiding non-selective oxidation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 by inhibiting over-oxidation of propane and propylene. This is attributed to N2O's weaker oxidizing potential, which reduces the surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion reactions at lower surface densities. Despite lower catalytic activity, propene selectivity remains consistent across VOx species with N2O, unlike with O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than with O2, especially for catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species (Quote 1, 6). This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction (Quote 1, 5). N2O effectively minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity (Quote 5, 11). The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity (Quote 12). Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for the practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to its role in reducing VOx species, which is crucial for high selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability results in lower ODP activity but higher propylene selectivity. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization influences propene oxidation. N2O mitigates catalyst deactivation by reducing nonselective oxygen species. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation requires optimizing structure, developing regeneration methods, and exploring oxidants. Further research is needed on oxygen species' role in selectivity and developing catalysts for N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity (Quote 2), attributed to molybdenum reduction (Quote 7), but faces challenges like reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 6). Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability requires advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min on stream. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are remarkable. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities, as it generates extraframework iron species responsible for propane oxydehydrogenation with N2O. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over other oxidants by reoxidizing vanadium without forming peroxovanadates, minimizing carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a challenge. Partial activity restoration is possible through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, preventing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, working in a more reduced state to prevent non-selective oxygen species formation. Its oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize selectivity, a key strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP compared to O2, as observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials [1,2]. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O leads to fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx [3]. Propene selectivity remains high until vanadium surface concentration exceeds monolayer coverage, causing direct propane oxidation, an effect mitigated by N2O over O2 [8]. N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation [9]. Research using EPR spectroscopy aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 catalysts [11]. N2O demonstrated a turnover frequency half that of O2, yet achieved 80% propene selectivity versus O2's 50% at 10% propane conversion [14]. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) matches top propene yields of 24% at high temperatures, achieved with steam-activated Fe-zeolites, akin to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. Advanced research is crucial to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability. In situ techniques, like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC, monitor coke formation and catalyst evolution under process conditions, offering insights into surface interactions and reversibility. Detailed in situ studies of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst regeneration effectiveness are unexplored areas requiring attention.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as reported by independent research groups. Iron zeolites, especially when steam-activated, are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address these limitations include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Research is needed to improve catalyst deactivation resistance and integrate process designs for catalyst regeneration, as indicated by the rapid deactivation of iron zeolites due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for O2 boosts propylene yield across iron zeolites and vanadium catalysts, with Fe-ZSM-5 excelling. However, rapid deactivation, chiefly due to coke, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and optimized conditions, making N2O-ODHP a promising yet challenging option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield, as evidenced by the addition of 300 ppm N2O. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, playing a less oxidizing role than O2 but still contributing to ODHP. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity, as observed in the presence of N2O. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst regeneration in the presence of N2O, as seen when the catalyst shows a high amount of carbon in the absence of O2. These findings suggest that N2O's role is to inhibit non-selective sites, and the presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is boosted by fully covering supports with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant, due to its lower reoxidation ability. Reduced steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields. Its efficiency stems from its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite's capability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge. Higher temperatures mitigate this issue, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at elevated temperatures. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene compared to N2O, and small additions decrease propene selectivity and increase COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production, deteriorating FeZSM-5's performance. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore mechanisms of coke formation and identify active sites less prone to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and catalytic performance, particularly with nickel molybdate catalysts, enhancing propylene yield and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low N2O concentrations. However, high N2O levels decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations can improve catalysts' oxidation state. Research on catalyst deactivation and stability is lacking, necessitating further investigation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as seen with Fe-ZSM-5, a catalyst excelling after severe calcination. Catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductive effect on N2O conversion, is a critical challenge. Research must clarify deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke and enhance longevity, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene over propane combustion. Well-dispersed vanadia species boost selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, a promising strategy for practical ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces catalytic activity by less efficiently re-oxidizing VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity. N2O's benefit is attributed to decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, notably with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O impacts selectivity and activity, with N2O promoting a higher degree of vanadium site reduction, which correlates with selectivity. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but higher propylene selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. N2O reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, requiring strategies to develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimize reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by studies showing increased selectivity and reduced CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, benefit from N2O, which promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction. These advancements could make N2O-ODHP more practical for implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, achieves up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA). Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, with higher initial propene yields than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. TEOM analysis reveals faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure, while MFI catalysts show slower deactivation, possibly due to their structure. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for high activity. Ex-FeZSM-5's mesopores may reduce coke blocking and improve transport, slowing deactivation. Ex-FeZSM-5's higher activity in N2O decomposition suggests increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which minimizes propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration with N2O at high temperatures is possible, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, reducing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. Its oxygen, from dissociation, oxidizes propane to propene, curbing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability, vital for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials compared to O2, due to slower reoxidation of VOx species, which reduces active lattice oxygen sites and suppresses propene oxidation to COx. VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation, but selectivity remains high with low vanadium surface concentration. Selectivity drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. Research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O for VOx reoxidation. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show higher propene selectivity with N2O (80%) versus O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene selectivity, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, with steam-activated Fe-zeolites achieving 24% yields. N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen in zeolites enhance dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a critical challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is imperative to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance (Quote [1]). However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy, complemented by TEOMGC, is pivotal for understanding coke deactivation and catalyst regeneration in C3H8 + N2O reactions (Quote [6]). This technique monitors carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, essential for ODHP comprehension (Quote [7]). Research gaps exist in in situ investigations of N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability (Quote [9], [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by independent research groups. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrate catalyst regeneration steps for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP leverages its greenhouse gas status for environmental gain and enhances propylene selectivity, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid deactivation, often due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is vital to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, contributing to ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, using pure N2O is unadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation and excessive carbon formation, highlighting the critical role of O2 in catalyst regeneration. N2O's synergy with O2 modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity, and underscores the need for advanced research to address limitations for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is optimized by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and further tuned by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Atomic oxygen species from N2O promote selective propane oxidation to propene, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) using FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, rapid deactivation occurs due to coke formation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, slow deactivation by enhancing N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) and deteriorates FeZSM-5's performance by decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. Strategies to address deactivation include optimizing temperature and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying catalysts less susceptible to deactivation. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective, pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially enhancing propylene yield and reducing CO2 production. However, high N2O concentrations decrease selectivity and cause carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize catalyst performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as seen with dioxygen [2]. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination [4]. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion [5][6]. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime [7][8]. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, as its less favorable decomposition reduces active sites, increasing selectivity compared to O2. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support further boost propene selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved by using N2O, effectively controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion. Despite lower catalytic activity, propene selectivity is consistent across VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles lack selectivity with O2, underscoring N2O's benefits. Research should tackle catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by limiting the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and up to three times greater propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. The improved performance with N2O is attributed to its lower ability to re-oxidize reduced VOx species, enhancing initial propene selectivity. Direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are reduced in the presence of N2O. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts compared to O2, due to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is critical for high selectivity. However, N2O leads to lower ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species contributes to lower activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, particularly in maintaining the reduction degree of vanadium species and preventing nonselective oxygen species. Strategies include developing catalysts with controlled active oxygen species density and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species. Advanced research is needed to define oxygen species from O2 and N2O over reduced VOx species, understand formation mechanisms, and create catalysts that sustain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by a decrease in propane conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide show improved performance with N2O, which promotes molybdenum reduction and selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and reducing deactivation, potentially through optimizing reaction conditions or using more stable catalysts. For instance, adding N2O to NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 slightly decreases propane conversion but significantly boosts propylene selectivity, indicating its role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, measures real-time mass changes during gas-solid reactions, correlating activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by slowly reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction as noted in [3] and [5], is a significant hurdle. [8] suggests that high-temperature N2O regeneration can partially restore activity, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research should target improving catalyst stability and minimizing vanadium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration offers a strategy to modulate selectivity, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. A similar effect is seen in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. The advantage of N2O lies in slower reoxidation of VOx species, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene to COx conversion. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. Prior studies on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP show a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, compared to half with N2O, but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50% at 10% propane conversion). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identifies oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, highlighting the need for further research to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation of VOx.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP yields high propene levels, matching V and Mo-based catalysts with O2, thanks to Fe-zeolites' monooxygen donation and reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, limits performance. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, enhancing propane dehydrogenation (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation (Quote 2) limits propylene yield. Advanced research using in situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy (Quote 7) is essential to understand deactivation mechanisms and monitor carbonaceous deposits. Studies on selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking (Quotes 9 and 10), highlighting the need for further investigation to address these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, with iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5, achieving superior performance. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Strategies to optimize catalyst formulations and reaction conditions are essential for practical implementation. Further research on catalyst stability and integrated process designs is needed to fully leverage N2O in ODHP, addressing limitations for practical application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, particularly with Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield, as per quote [2]. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP (quote [5]). However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (quote [17]). N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity (quote [19]). Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species reduction. Spatial separation of VOx favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and further tuned by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are key for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, highlighting N2O's role in enhancing selectivity and the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor role and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) than N2O and decreases C3H6 selectivity, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify less deactivating active sites. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation by providing a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing catalyst performance by adjusting propane conversion, propylene yield, and selectivity. It reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. However, high N2O levels decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Modulating promoter concentrations like N2O can improve catalyst performance by adjusting the oxidation state. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as noted in Quote 2. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are potent catalysts, as per Quote 3 and Quote 4. However, catalyst deactivation, highlighted in Quote 5, is a major hurdle, compounded by propane's role in N2O conversion (Quote 6). The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and lack of solutions to prevent coke deposition (Quote 8) are pressing issues. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, as its less favorable decomposition compared to O2 reduces active sites and boosts propene formation (Quotes 1, 2). High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, optimizing propene formation. However, N2O's lower re-oxidation ability reduces catalytic activity versus O2. Propene selectivity is consistent across VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2 where selectivity drops. Further research is needed to address N2O's catalytic activity limitations for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2 by limiting the re-oxidation of reduced VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. Studies demonstrate up to triple propylene selectivity with N2O, notably with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O influence selectivity and activity differently, involving complex reaction pathways. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is due to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. N2O's lower oxidizing ability tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, leading to spatial separation of active lattice oxygen species and reducing the surface density of active oxygen species. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been employed in ODHP, with the degree of polymerization of VOx species influencing their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions aim to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, improving selectivity. N2O and -Sb2O4 both control selectivity, inhibiting non-selective sites. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, requiring strategies like developing stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions for practical N2O-ODHP implementation. (Quote 2) With N2O, propylene selectivity increases, while propane conversion and CO2 yield decrease. (Quote 3, 7) Under N2O, molybdenum in NiMoO4 works in a slightly more reduced state, enhancing selectivity. (Quote 8) N2O and -Sb2O4 play similar roles in controlling the selectivity of NiMoO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. A major issue is deactivation by coke, causing a rapid decrease in propene yield. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The nature of extraframework iron species and the zeolite structure influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance may relate to its iron constitution and porous structure. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, unlike O2, which leads to carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, is a critical challenge. Partial activity restoration is possible through high-temperature N2O regeneration, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. Its dissociated O oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Concentration adjustment of N2O can enhance selectivity, aiding catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based catalysts. A similar effect is seen in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation rises with agglomeration. Propene selectivity is stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops sharply with V2O5 nanocrystallites, mitigated by N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. A previous study on VOx/MCM-41 showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, halved with N2O, but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identified oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome catalyst limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) yields 24% propene at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying coke sensitivity among active iron sites, indicating complex deactivation processes involving reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke (Quote [2]) hinders propylene yield. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation and regeneration (Quote [6]). Despite the use of TEOM and GC analysis, detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking (Quote [9]), as is research on catalyst reusability after regeneration (Quote [10]). Advanced research is essential to address these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Strategies include alternative iron sources, enhanced deactivation resistance, and integrated process designs with regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. It boosts yield across catalysts, notably iron zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Fe-ZSM-5 excels, but deactivation, mainly from coke, limits N2O's feasibility. Research needs focus on stable catalysts and understanding deactivation for robust processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield, as evidenced by its ability to operate catalytic sites in a more reduced and selective state (Quote 3). At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, further promoting ODHP (Quote 5). However, pure N2O leads to catalyst deactivation due to high carbon formation, highlighting the necessity of molecular oxygen for regeneration (Quote 17). The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity (Quote 19). Future research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the precise role of N2O in ODHP to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity benefits from well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and is tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as it's less favorable than O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration aids propene over COx, needing 1-2 oxygen atoms. Active sites with >2 oxygen atoms favor waste products. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance; atomic oxygen aids selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen contributes to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate this by slowing deactivation and increasing N2O conversion. O2 addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and boosts COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming to enhance practical implementation by providing a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, exhibits superior propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with low concentrations enhancing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing CO2 formation. Higher N2O levels decrease propylene selectivity and increase carbonaceous product formation. Modulating promoter concentrations, like N2O, can optimize catalyst oxidation states, improving performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which often causes over-oxidation. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductive effect on N2O conversion, is a major challenge. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality, addressing limitations for real-world application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to less favorable decomposition compared to O2, as per quotes 1 and 2. High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species, as stated in quote 3. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, as in quote 4, controls selective oxidation and combustion, improving selectivity. Replacing O2 with N2O optimizes this concentration, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity by less effectively re-oxidizing surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent between VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies demonstrate up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation. The degree of reduction of vanadium sites and the nature of oxygen species are key factors affecting propene selectivity and consecutive oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to its lower oxidizing ability which increases the reduction degree of VOx species, suppressing nonselective propene oxidation. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, improving selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by optimizing catalyst structure and composition. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation and developing catalysts that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide are crucial. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and exploring N2O's role in inhibiting oxygen adsorption and controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposit formation as per [3] and [5], poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as seen in [8], indicates potential strategies for overcoming limitations. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods to make N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by restricting O2 adsorption and sustaining a reduced catalyst state, which curbs non-selective oxygen species and controls oxidation rate. Its oxygen specifically oxidizes propane to propene, showcasing selectivity superiority. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, offering a strategy to refine the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, outperforming O2. This is also observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Kinetic analysis shows slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, with selectivity remaining high for isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters but dropping with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Recent studies suggest non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation, unlike N2O. Prior studies on VOx/MCM-41 showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, halving with N2O, yet propene selectivity increased to 80% from 50% at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identified oxygen species reactive towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, highlighting the need for further research to address catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propylene selectivity, achieving 24% initial yields with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly challenges catalyst stability, rapidly diminishing propene yield, though regeneration in pure oxygen can restore activity. Deactivation rates vary, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is crucial for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding ODHP (Quote [6]). Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating further research for practical implementation (Quote [9]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve 22% propylene yield, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with deactivation being slower over steam-activated zeolites. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP leverages its greenhouse gas status for environmental gain and enhances propylene selectivity, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts. Iron-based Fe-ZSM-5 excels in propylene yield. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, often due to coke, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is needed for stable catalysts and to understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that moderately induce ODHP. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, explaining improved selectivity in ODHP. Research should focus on catalysts that maintain activity in N2O-rich environments and understand the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity by reducing active lattice oxygen, favoring propane oxidation to propene over COx. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen contributes to COx formation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 yields lower C3H6 and increases COx compared to N2O. Strategies include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming for a cost-effective N2O source through selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen. Nickel molybdate catalysts doped with N2O improve catalytic performance and propylene yield. However, high N2O concentrations decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing stability and addressing deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP is noted for higher propylene selectivity versus dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2 (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after severe calcination (Quotes [3] and [4]). However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion (Quotes [5] and [6]). The unclear deactivation mechanism (Quote [7]) and lack of strategies to prevent coke deposition (Quote [8]) hinder catalyst lifetime. Advanced research into deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are essential for achieving high selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, making it a promising oxidant. Research should tackle catalyst stability and deactivation to advance N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces catalytic activity but favors propylene formation by lowering surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, promoting selective propylene production over combustion. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference from dispersed VOx species with N2O. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and overcome deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than with O2, by limiting the re-oxidation of reduced VOx species and promoting higher catalyst reduction, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. The improved performance with N2O is attributed to its lower ability to re-oxidize reduced VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. This results in reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene formation over COx. However, catalyst stability and deactivation remain critical challenges, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity. N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which catalyze nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. The lower reoxidation ability of N2O for VOx species is responsible for lower ODP activity but higher propene selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4, -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are crucial, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, possibly through new catalyst development or optimized reaction conditions. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests synergistic effects in mixed catalysts, offering potential for advanced catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The nature of these species, the zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance may relate to its porous structure and mesopores, reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to coke reaction and COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, likely due to its ability to maintain a more reduced state and restrict non-selective oxygen species formation. Dissociated O from N2O oxidizes propane to propene, offering superior selectivity. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, a promising strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. The mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and minimizing propylene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, and selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Studies suggest additional oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Prior research on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP showed a propane conversion turnover frequency halving with N2O compared to O2, yet propene selectivity rose to 80% vs. 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. Further research aims to identify oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 using EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propylene selectivity, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, thanks to Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly challenges catalyst stability, with Fe-beta showing the fastest deactivation rate among Fe-zeolites. Research suggests varying coke sensitivity across iron sites in FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research to enhance catalyst stability and practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propane dehydrogenation in ODHP by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity. However, coke deposition on iron zeolites leads to rapid deactivation and reduced propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively tracks coking and deactivation but lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding hydrocarbon conversion. Detailed in situ studies on N2O oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are needed, as current research does not fully address these areas. Complementary spectroscopic studies and TEOMGC experiments can evaluate catalyst reversibility and regeneration effectiveness, confirmed by XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption analyses.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites have shown higher propylene yields (Quote 7), and steaming reduces deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites (Quote 20). Further research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates environmental impact by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, particularly with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, ensuring robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by operating in a reduced state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that can still induce ODHP. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state during ODHP, as evidenced by improved selectivity and conversion rates in the presence of N2O. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and further tuned by N2O. Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O boosts propene selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species promote selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 catalysts excels, achieving high propene yields. Its effectiveness is attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms in zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at higher temperatures due to higher N2O conversion. Oxygen's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and enhancing regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, with optimal results at low concentrations. Adjusting N2O levels can modulate catalyst oxidation states, enhancing performance and addressing stability and deactivation issues. Advanced research is crucial for optimizing N2O concentration to improve propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, making N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as noted in Quote 2. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts, with calcination enhancing performance (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle, exacerbated by propane's presence (Quotes 5, 6, 7). Addressing deactivation mechanisms and improving catalyst stability, as highlighted in Quote 8, could make N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, linked to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles exhibit no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from N2O and O2 plays a critical role in selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability remains a challenge for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, necessitating advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts compared to O2, due to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower reoxidation ability of N2O reduces nonselective consecutive propene oxidation, despite leading to lower ODP activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges. Strategies focus on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations in catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, and promotes molybdenum reduction for better catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, indicating potential limitations. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts like -Sb2O4, which, similar to N2O, controls selectivity and inhibits non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. The TEOM technique reveals the impact of zeolite structure on deactivation rates, correlating activity and deactivation. Steam activation and iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and resistance to coke, focusing on Fe-zeolite structures and N2O activation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over other oxidants, despite lower propane conversion, by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposit formation, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, tackling catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, as evidenced across diverse catalysts (Quote [1]). Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (Quote [3]). Challenges include VOx sites' enhanced activity for propene oxidation with agglomerization, leading to a significant drop in selectivity when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, though N2O mitigates this (Quote [8]). Other oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O (Quote [9]). Advanced research is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high initial propene production of 24% with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying sensitivity of active iron sites to coke, indicating complex deactivation processes involving reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy are crucial for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding deactivation mechanisms. Despite these tools, the surface-level deactivation mechanism remains unclear, and in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking. Research is needed to address catalyst reusability and improve understanding of the reaction under true process conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, with iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. Research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, as observed in steam-activated zeolites, and integrate regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, particularly with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, often due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires research to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O's addition to ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by promoting a more reduced state in catalytic sites, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O's dissociation products play a role in the reaction, suggesting its ability to induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst regeneration in the presence of N2O, preventing quick deactivation. These findings highlight the need for advanced research to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation, focusing on catalyst stability and the synergistic effects of N2O and O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves on V/g-Al2O3 with well-dispersed VOx and is further optimized by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a superior oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency stems from its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen in the zeolite. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 yields much lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O, and small additions decrease C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing catalytic performance and propylene yield while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability issues hinder practical implementation, necessitating advanced research to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as per Quote 2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5 (Quote 3), are efficient catalysts (Quote 4), but catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion (Quote 6) are challenges. Understanding deactivation mechanisms (Quote 7) and preventing coke deposition (Quote 8) are essential for enhancing catalyst stability and lifetime. Advanced research is needed to optimize conditions and develop more stable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation. Optimizing lattice oxygen with N2O controls selective oxidation, as seen in quote [4]. High propene selectivity is achieved by fully covering the support with well-dispersed vanadia species, per quote [3]. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O surpasses O2 in ODHP by enhancing propylene selectivity at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, albeit with lower catalytic activity due to less effective VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity with nanoparticles. N2O's efficacy stems from lowering surface oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, as demonstrated in studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. The improved performance is particularly evident with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O's oxygen species play a crucial role in minimizing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, thereby improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity, with N2O's oxygen species being pivotal in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, compared to oxygen (O2). This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for the ODP reaction over certain catalysts. Critical challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion (Quote 2). Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts catalyst selectivity (Quote 3). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and activity, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts to mitigate deactivation (Quotes 5, 6, 9, 10, 11), making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its more open structure that reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation, suggesting potential strategies for catalyst improvement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge, as indicated in [3] and [5]. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as per [8], but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, as it operates in a more reduced state. The O from N2O's dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability challenges for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to O2, due to slower reoxidation of VOx species. This reduces active lattice oxygen sites and suppresses propene oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, but selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters. Selectivity drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Research suggests other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Further investigation is needed on the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 for improved catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), achieving 24% propene yields with Fe-zeolites, matching V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves a decrease in active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is imperative to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation due to coke buildup, affecting propylene yield (Quote 2). While TEOM coupled with GC analysis reveals deactivation and coking mass changes, it lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms (Quotes 3-5). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed to monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface acidity changes in real time, crucial for understanding deactivation (Quote 6-7). Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, highlighting a research gap (Quote 10). Advanced in situ investigations and catalyst reusability studies are needed to address limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality (Quote 9).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly those activated by steam, have shown remarkable propylene yields over 20% at temperatures as low as 643-773 K. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge, affecting the stability and lifetime of iron zeolites. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research directions include developing more stable catalyst formulations, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Understanding the role of acidity and iron impurities in ODHP is crucial for improving catalyst performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, notably with iron-zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Despite this, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is imperative to boost stability and elucidate deactivation, aiming to refine conditions and develop robust catalysts for viable N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that still induce ODHP. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst regeneration in the presence of N2O, preventing quick deactivation. N2O's role includes inhibiting non-selective sites, and in conjunction with O2, it modulates the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhance propene selectivity. Reduced VOx site reoxidation by N2O vs O2 increases propene yield. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic species contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to high N2O conversion. O2 significantly lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially lowering propane conversion but increasing propylene yield while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate catalyst oxidation state, enhancing performance and tackling stability and deactivation issues, a critical research direction to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane pose significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism and coke deposition hinder catalyst lifetime. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by unfavorably decomposing compared to O2, reducing active sites and boosting propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support further improve selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential lowers surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2, as observed in V/MCM-41 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 species. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering a more favorable reaction pathway. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research to optimize vanadium species reduction and control oxygen species for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species reduces nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving selectivity. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reduces propane conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Strategies involve developing stable catalysts with high activity and selectivity, optimizing reaction conditions. Adding 300 ppm N2O to NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 increases propylene selectivity, while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Under N2O, molybdenum in NiMoO4 works in a more reduced state, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant issue. FeZSM-5 shows notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. The nature of these species, the zeolite host, and catalyst acidity impact deactivation. Steam activation is vital for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation by measuring real-time mass changes. FeZSM-5's enhanced deactivation resistance may relate to its iron constitution and porous structure, with mesopores reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition might have greater resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike other oxidants, which boosts propene yield. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration can be achieved by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. This curbs non-selective oxygen species and regulates catalyst oxidation. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, a key strategy for catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. The mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. N2O halves propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, focusing on the nature and structure of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41, using EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP yields 24% propene at high temperatures, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites, due to N2O's monooxygen donation, efficiently dehydrogenate propane. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than other Fe-zeolites. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation from coke formation, affecting propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms and regeneration in C3H8 + N2O reactions, as detailed studies on catalyst reusability are lacking. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations, ensuring catalyst stability and practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts in this process, achieving notable propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a critical challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as optimizing reaction conditions and developing more stable catalyst formulations, are essential for practical implementation. Advanced research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps into the process design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts. Iron-based Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 yield. However, catalysts often deactivate due to coke, hindering N2O's practicality. Research should target stable catalysts, coke minimization, and enhanced resistance, as understanding deactivation mechanisms is crucial.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, enhancing catalytic site reduction and selectivity, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and decreased propane and oxygen conversion. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species participate in the reaction, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst oxidation and regeneration in the presence of N2O. Research is needed to optimize N2O and O2 ratios for stable, selective ODHP, as the presence of both gases fully explains the improved selectivity of catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species, tunable with N2O. N2O's reduced reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Decreased steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propene over COx formation, needing only one to two lattice oxygen for the former. More than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic species participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a monooxygen donor in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, outperforming O2. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate this, showing slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with optimal results at low concentrations. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity and increase carbonaceous products. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates catalyst oxidation state, enhancing performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability issues hinder practical implementation, necessitating advanced research to overcome these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which often causes over-oxidation. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation is a major issue, with propane complicating N2O conversion. Research is needed on deactivation mechanisms and developing stable catalysts to minimize coke formation and enhance lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion (Quotes [1], [2]). High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote [3]). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration using N2O over O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote [4]).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms O2 in ODHP by boosting propylene selectivity at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, slightly reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's preference for V2O5. N2O's advantage stems from a reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring selective propene formation over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a crucial role in selectivity and activity. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst stability and deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP a more practical option. Studies show that propene selectivity increases when O2 is replaced by N2O, with the most significant improvements observed for catalysts possessing bulk-like V2O5 species. The improved performance is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize reduced VOx species, resulting in a higher degree of catalyst reduction. This, in turn, leads to improved propene selectivity and reduced formation of CO and CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for higher propene selectivity and lower ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species is crucial, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is also responsible for the lower ODP activity with N2O than with O2. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on advanced research to develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. The use of N2O can mitigate issues of catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants for high selectivity and activity while maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Research aims to develop stable catalysts, optimize conditions, and explore new catalysts. NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, with palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide, show promise. N2O significantly increases propylene selectivity, while -Sb2O4 modulates selectivity, indicating synergistic effects. Strategies to improve stability and reduce deactivation are vital for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise boosts carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its dissociated O oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize catalytic performance and address limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2. This effect is also observed in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide catalysts. Kinetic analysis reveals slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's consecutive oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops significantly with V2O5 nanocrystallites, although N2O mitigates this effect. Recent studies suggest that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed higher propene selectivity with N2O versus O2 at 10% propane conversion. Further research is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role in propane ODHP showcases Fe-zeolites achieving 24% initial propene yields, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' coordination of reactive oxygen species, facilitated by N2O's monooxygen donor property, is key. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, varying among Fe-beta, Fe-silicalite, and FeZSM-5. Active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues contribute to deactivation. Advanced research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, coke formation rapidly deactivates iron zeolites, impacting propylene yield (Quote [2]). While TEOM with GC analysis effectively monitors coking-induced deactivation, it lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms (Quotes [3]-[5]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposit formation and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation (Quotes [6]-[7]). Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are needed, highlighting a research gap (Quotes [8]-[10]). Complementary spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions are essential for a comprehensive understanding of the ODHP process (Quotes [11]-[12]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve up to 22% propylene yield, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with deactivation rates varying among catalysts. Steam activation reduces Brnsted acid sites, slowing deactivation. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability, optimize reaction conditions, and explore alternative iron sources for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based and redox metals. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalyst state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption, as per quote 2 and 3. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that promote ODHP (quote 5). However, pure N2O causes catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, making molecular oxygen essential for regeneration (quote 17). N2O, alongside O2, modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, improving selectivity (quote 19). Research should optimize N2O concentration and explore its interaction with O2 for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity by reducing active sites' oxygen, favoring propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, unlike polyatomic species from O2, which promote COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency stems from N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, slow deactivation and boost N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant drastically lowers C3H6 yields compared to N2O, with small additions decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify less deactivating active sites. Creating cost-effective N2O sources through selective low-temperature NH3 oxidation could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, exhibits superior propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen in nickel molybdate-catalyzed reactions where it boosts propylene yield and selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges. Adjusting N2O concentration can influence catalyst oxidation state, potentially enhancing stability and performance. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations and make N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, minimizing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation compared to dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts, with enhanced performance post-calcination. However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductive properties, complicates N2O conversion. The unclear deactivation mechanism lacks strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into stable catalysts, deactivation mechanisms, and optimized conditions could significantly improve N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and boosting propene yield. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for controlling selective oxidation and combustion, is achieved by using N2O over O2. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key to achieving high propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but favors propylene formation. No significant propylene selectivity difference exists between VOx and V2O5 with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage lies in lowering surface oxygen density in VOx, favoring propylene over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing VOx species re-oxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times higher selectivity than O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is essential to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is critical for high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in reduced ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx, improving selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing that the nature of VOx species and their degree of polymerization significantly influence catalytic performance. Microcrystalline V2O5 phases affect activity and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, with N2O potentially mitigating deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is essential to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide are used, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical implementation. Research directions focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction, as suggested by N2O's role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, crucial for activity, are generated during steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation, suggesting research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding iron species' role and zeolite structure in deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge, as highlighted in [3] and [5]. Partial regeneration through N2O heating can restore activity, as per [8]. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and minimizing vanadium reduction for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    