Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption, promoting a reduced catalyst state conducive to propene formation, and allowing selectivity modulation through promoter concentration adjustments, as evidenced by its role in limiting non-selective oxygen species and directly oxidizing propane to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, as evidenced across various catalysts including iron-zeolites and vanadium oxides. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active lattice oxygen, curbing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, mitigated by N2O. Unlike N2O, other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. Research aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41, focusing on the nature and structure of oxygen species formed upon reoxidation. A previous study showed N2O halved propane conversion turnover frequency compared to O2, yet doubled propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is exploring the reactivity of oxygen species from N2O and O2 towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation, addressing the need for advanced research to overcome catalyst limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves 24% initial propene yield, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites excel due to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts iron zeolites' efficiency in propane dehydrogenation [1], but catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propylene yield [2]. In situ techniques, particularly FTIR spectroscopy, are crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms and carbon deposit formation on zeolite catalysts [7]. Detailed studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability after regeneration are scarce [10], underscoring the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as evidenced by iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving notable propylene yields (quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits stability (quote 6). Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on iron sources, deactivation-resistant catalysts, and integrated process designs could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Substituting N2O for oxygen significantly increases propylene yield, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP a viable option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by maintaining catalytic sites in a reduced state, limiting non-selective oxygen species, and inhibiting non-selective propane activation. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that can still induce ODHP. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is necessary alongside N2O to optimize the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced on V/g-Al2O3 with well-dispersed VOx species, further optimized by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propene over COx formation, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen for selective propane oxidation. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen favor waste products. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen involved in COx formation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields 25% propene at 723 K, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes deactivation, reducing propene yields. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 yields lower C3H6 and increases COx compared to N2O. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should explore coke-resistant active sites and cost-effective N2O sources through selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, exemplified by nickel molybdate catalysts performing better at low N2O concentrations. Higher N2O levels reduce selectivity. Modulating promoter concentrations, like N2O, can optimize catalyst oxidation states, improving stability and tackling deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, even more so after calcination. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant effect, complicates N2O conversion. Unclear deactivation mechanisms and coke deposition hinder catalyst longevity. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing robust catalysts, and optimizing conditions to improve catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by unfavorably decomposing relative to O2, reducing active sites and enhancing selectivity. High propene selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species on the support. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration using N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2 due to its milder oxidizing strength, which restrains direct propane and subsequent propene oxidation to COx. This yields lower activity but higher selectivity, attributed to diminished surface density of active oxygen in VOx species. Both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show similar propylene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2 where V2O5 lacks selectivity. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction, especially effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O leading to less CO and CO2 formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, requiring advanced research to overcome limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts due to its ability to increase the reduction degree of VOx species, which is crucial for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 demonstrate that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Primary C3H6 selectivity is higher with N2O over a broad range of propane conversions, and the ability for consecutive C3H6 oxidation to COx is reduced. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity. Both N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity by inhibiting non-selective sites. N2O's mechanism may involve oxygen adsorption inhibition, promoting molybdenum reduction. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring research into more stable catalysts and optimized reaction conditions for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, influence deactivation behavior. Steam activation and iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation, suggesting potential strategies for improving catalyst stability and overcoming limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by uniquely reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, minimizing carbon oxide formation. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through N2O regeneration at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, offering a controlled oxygen source for propane oxidation. Reduced sites favor propylene production. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, optimizing the process. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical application. Strategies like promoter concentration adjustment can improve selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to fewer active lattice oxygen sites and reduced propene oxidation to COx. High propene selectivity is sustained as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage, but drops sharply with V2O5 nanocrystallites. N2O mitigates total propane oxidation more effectively than O2. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst demonstrated a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, whereas N2O achieved half the conversion rate but 80% propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion, compared to 50% with O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves high propene yields of 24%, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' success is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility loss, indicating complex processes that require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's unique role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, significantly boosting iron zeolites' performance (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation (Quote 2) limits propylene yield, highlighting the need for in situ studies to understand deactivation mechanisms (Quote 9). Advanced research is essential to overcome limitations, particularly regarding catalyst reusability (Quote 10), making N2O-ODHP more practical for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, up to 22% with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites that catalyze coke formation. Research directions include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and exploring alternative iron sources. Advanced catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation and integrated process designs incorporating regeneration steps could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's potent greenhouse gas properties enhance propylene selectivity in ODHP, particularly with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, as understanding deactivation mechanisms is crucial for robust catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating catalytic sites for a more selective reaction, as evidenced by its ability to induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2 at concentrations over 300 ppm. However, pure N2O leads to catalyst deactivation, highlighting the necessity of molecular oxygen for catalyst regeneration. N2O's primary role is to inhibit non-selective sites, and the presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation through advanced research is essential for making N2O-ODHP a more practical industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity gains when VOx species fully coat supports and N2O acts as the oxidant. N2O's reduced reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, as its reoxidation is less favorable than O2's. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms prefer propene over COx. Research suggests atomic oxygen species aid selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, though direct evidence is lacking. Advanced research is vital to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, up to 25% at 723 K, due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. A major challenge is catalyst deactivation by coke formation, which reduces propene yields. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, slow deactivation and correlate with higher N2O conversion. Compared to O2, N2O significantly boosts C3H6 yields, with O2 addition decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, initially enhancing yield while reducing propane conversion and oxygen consumption. Excessive N2O, however, decreases selectivity and promotes carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentration, akin to N2O, enhances catalyst stability and performance, addressing key challenges and paving the way for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, unlike dioxygen which over-oxidizes to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant effect, is a key challenge. Research is needed to clarify deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing catalyst longevity for practical N2O-ODHP use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by lowering active sites, favoring propene over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for high selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, making N2O-ODHP a viable strategy for practical implementation, requiring further research to address catalyst limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates by inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing active oxygen density in VOx species. This selectivity is consistent across different catalysts. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene formation. However, N2O's weaker re-oxidation ability decreases catalytic activity compared to O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, which increases catalyst reduction. This results in reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from N2O differ from those of O2, influencing selectivity and activity. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation need to be addressed through advanced research to make N2O-ODHP more practical for implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, achieving a higher degree of vanadium species reduction, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. N2O's lower oxidizing ability tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, leading to a higher reduction state, particularly for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. However, this lower reoxidation activity compared to O2 results in lower ODHP activity. N2O avoids the production of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges under N2O-ODHP conditions. Strategies to address these limitations could involve developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that can maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, promoting molybdenum reduction for improved catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, with catalyst deactivation and stability as critical issues. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction, as suggested by N2O's role and -Sb2O4's influence in controlling selectivity. N2O facilitates molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity, while -Sb2O4 irrigates MoO3 with spillover oxygen, facilitating its oxidation. The mechanism by which N2O adjusts catalyst reduction seems different, possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, are generated during steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than over commercial zeolites. Remarkable yields of propionaldehyde (up to 6%) are obtained. TEOM, a microbalance technique, correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, is a significant hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with O2 are viable strategies. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and enhancing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, creating a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Oxygen from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene, improving selectivity. Adjusting promoter concentrations can further optimize selectivity. Challenges involve catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, as demonstrated with various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. This is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to fewer active lattice oxygen sites and suppressed propene oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization affecting propene selectivity and direct propane oxidation, which is less severe with N2O. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation than O2. Further research is needed on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts to understand oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation. EPR spectroscopy can identify these species and explore their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation. N2O achieved half the propane conversion rate of O2 but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50% at approximately 10% propane conversion).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP, via Fe-zeolites, matches V and Mo-based catalysts' propene yields, highlighting its monooxygen donor trait and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. Catalyst deactivation, notably in Fe-beta zeolites, due to coke, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 reveals active sites with varying coke sensitivity, indicating complex deactivation mechanisms involving active site reduction, quality decrease, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is essential to overcome deactivation and enhance catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP, enhancing propylene selectivity, is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC are crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms, as they monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in real time. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are needed, as the extent of performance recovery on successive cycles remains unaddressed. Advanced research is essential to address these limitations and improve N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to O2, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Further research is needed to optimize catalyst formulations and reaction conditions, understand the role of acidity, and improve catalyst stability, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, effectively utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen increases propylene yield, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, making N2O-ODHP a promising but challenging option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing catalytic sites and inhibiting non-selective propane activation, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and selectivity at 300 ppm N2O. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, highlighting the necessity of molecular oxygen for catalyst regeneration. These findings underscore the potential role of N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for enhanced selectivity, suggesting that the presence of both O2 and N2O is crucial for optimal performance. Further research is needed to optimize N2O concentration and catalyst design for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and N2O's use as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene, excelling due to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, showing slower deactivation linked to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify catalysts less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, with nickel molybdate catalysts showing improved performance, as per the quote. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, potentially mitigated by optimizing N2O concentration for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reducing over-oxidation compared to dioxygen [2]. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are crucial catalysts [3], but face challenges in deactivation and coke deposition, limiting their efficiency. Advanced research is needed to clarify deactivation mechanisms, improve catalyst stability, and optimize conditions to curb coke formation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practical viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and increasing yield compared to O2, as its decomposition is less favorable (Quote 1). Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O (Quote 4) controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This is due to its weaker oxidizing potential, reducing active oxygen density in VOx species and favoring propene formation. However, N2O's lower re-oxidation capacity decreases catalytic activity. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation is crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in improved initial propene selectivity and reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene formation. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation. Studies show that propene selectivity can increase up to three times with N2O over VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, attributed to the higher degree of catalyst reduction and the differing nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts by controlling the reduction degree of VOx species, which is critical for high propylene yield. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving selectivity. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species to maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield, as per quotes 2 and 5. It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity (quotes 3, 6, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical use. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and mitigating deactivation. N2O and -Sb2O4 likely have synergistic roles in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites (quotes 8-12), suggesting avenues for catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA) yields initial propylene up to 25% at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, cause deactivation via coke formation. FeZSM-5 shows resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its structure. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities. Steam activation and iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by uniquely reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction as mentioned in [3] and [5], is a significant issue. Partial activity restoration is achievable through N2O regeneration at high temperatures, as seen in [8], with full recovery requiring O2. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and refining regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, crucial for selective propane oxidation to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration optimizes selectivity, mitigating catalyst deactivation and stability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene to COx conversion. VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation, and high vanadium concentrations lead to propane total oxidation, mitigated by N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation, highlighting the need for further research on oxygen species from O2 and N2O. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, offering a path to improve catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O, paired with Fe-zeolites, achieves high propene yields in ODHP, rivaling top V and Mo-based catalysts, due to its monooxygen donation and reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly rapid in Fe-beta, limits propene production. Catalyst deactivation, involving reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, underscores the need for advanced research to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation by coke deposition significantly impacts propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are essential for studying coke formation and deactivation mechanisms (Quotes [7] and [8]). Detailed insights into catalyst regeneration and reusability, particularly for iron-containing zeolites in N2O-ODHP reactions, are needed to address current knowledge gaps and enhance practical implementation (Quotes [10] and [11]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve up to 22% propylene yield, outperforming other methods. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, but steam-activated zeolites show slower deactivation. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Further research is needed to develop stable catalysts, optimize conditions, and integrate regeneration for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen, especially with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts, enhances propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Research is essential for improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by promoting a more selective state in catalytic sites, as evidenced by increased yield and selectivity when 300 ppm N2O is added. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that moderately induce ODHP. However, pure N2O requires O2 for catalyst regeneration to prevent rapid deactivation, as molecular oxygen is necessary to oxidize and regenerate the catalysts. Studies with NiMoO4/[Si,V]-MCM-41 catalysts show that N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state during ODHP, significantly improving propylene selectivity and yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. VOx species coverage and N2O's reduced reoxidation ability optimize selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms prefer propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species drive selective oxidation, while polyatomic species lead to COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a monooxygen donor in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 boosts propene yields up to 25% at 723 K, attributed to iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, notably 773 K, mitigate deactivation. Oxygen (O2) as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O, and small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures and developing coke-resistant catalysts for efficient regeneration. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and yield, reduces oxygen use and CO2 emissions, especially at low concentrations. Higher N2O levels can decrease selectivity and increase carbonaceous byproducts. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving performance. Catalyst deactivation and stability challenges necessitate advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation, as seen in Quote 2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts for this process, with enhanced performance after calcination, as per Quote 4. However, catalyst deactivation, highlighted in Quote 5, and the complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane, mentioned in Quote 6, are significant hurdles. The deactivation mechanism, discussed in Quote 7, is not fully understood, and preventing coke deposition, as noted in Quote 8, remains a challenge. Advanced research is imperative to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, which controls selective oxidation and combustion, as per Quote 4. This is achieved due to N2O's less favorable decomposition compared to O2, reducing active sites and enhancing selectivity, as stated in Quote 2. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support, as mentioned in Quote 3, further increase selectivity. These insights address catalyst stability and deactivation issues, highlighting the need for advanced research to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential boosts selectivity, favoring propene formation. Both surface VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show similar propene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and selectivity. Direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are minimized with N2O, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impact selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, by influencing the reduction degree of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity due to its reduced ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. N2O's advantage lies in achieving a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, essential for high primary propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. The higher polymerized VOx species have a higher activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are more significant in the presence of O2 than N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, reducing propane and oxygen conversion while minimizing CO2 yield, as per quote 2. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction (quote 3), are pivotal. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, highlighting the need for stable catalysts. Research should optimize reaction conditions and explore new catalysts for higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity (quote 7) and inhibiting non-selective sites (quote 10) suggests potential synergies in mixed catalysts, enhancing N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with FeZSM-5 exhibiting notable resistance unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, and the nature of extraframework iron species influences deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which reduces carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, controlling vanadium reduction, and developing effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption, promoting catalyst reduction, and selectively oxidizing propane to propylene. Its unique mechanism, operating in a reduced state, curbs non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to a lower concentration of active lattice oxygen sites and suppression of propene's oxidation to COx. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, particularly with increased agglomerization degree, which can result in lower propene selectivity and direct propane oxidation. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, aiming to improve catalyst performance and make N2O-ODHP more practical for implementation. Studies show that propene selectivity was significantly improved over different catalysts when using N2O, and the activity of VOx sites for consecutive propene oxidation increases with rising agglomerization degree. When N2O was used, propene selectivity was higher, amounting to 80% with N2O but only to 50% with O2 at propane conversion of approximately 10%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves high propylene yields of 24%, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites excel due to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, limits propylene yield, with mechanisms involving reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, suggesting varying iron site sensitivity to coke.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by acting as a mono-oxygen donor, enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, as per [1]. However, iron zeolites' deactivation due to coke buildup, noted in [2], hinders propylene yield. In situ FTIR spectroscopy, suggested in [6], could monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, offering real-time insights into deactivation mechanisms. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability, highlighted in [9]-[12], are needed to address limitations and advance N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers advantages with lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields, particularly using iron zeolites like steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Research directions should focus on alternative iron sources, designing deactivation-resistant catalysts, and integrating regeneration steps for practical implementation. Steam activation, as shown in studies, can improve catalytic performance and slow down deactivation by reducing the number of Brnsted acid sites, which are linked to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, effectively utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield, particularly with iron and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and optimized conditions, making N2O-ODHP a promising but challenging option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by operating catalysts in a reduced state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting CO2 formation, as evidenced by its ability to increase propylene yield and selectivity (Quote 2). At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP (Quote 5). However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to the need for O2 to regenerate catalysts and prevent quick deactivation (Quote 17). The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 19). Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation and promoting spatial separation of VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with full coverage of V/g-Al2O3 by VOx and by using N2O as an oxidant, due to its lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, and atomic oxygen species from N2O are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K, attributed to its monooxygen donor role and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O. Strategies include optimizing temperatures and catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less deactivable active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, exemplified in nickel molybdate catalysts where N2O doping boosts propylene yield and selectivity, reduces O2 consumption, and lowers CO2 production at low N2O concentrations. However, high N2O levels decrease selectivity and increase carbonaceous products. Optimizing promoter concentrations can improve catalyst performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding CO/CO2 over-oxidation, a common issue with dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, notably calcined Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts for this process. However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductant properties, complicates N2O conversion. Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, prevent coke deposition, and improve catalyst stability, crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing active sites and regulating oxidation reactions, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. High selectivity is attained with well-dispersed vanadia species. Optimizing oxygen concentration with N2O over O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, outperforming O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, slightly reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with nanoparticles. N2O's superiority is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, necessitating advanced research to enhance catalyst performance and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in a higher reduction degree of VOx species, suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP. Strategies to overcome these include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing methods to regenerate deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield. NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide catalysts are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, hindering practical application. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is vital. Strategies like developing stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions could improve N2O-ODHP's feasibility. For instance, N2O's role in reducing molybdenum, as seen with NiMoO4, suggests potential for selectivity control, aligning with -Sb2O4's function in modulating selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. This mechanism favors propylene production over carbon oxides. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant issue, exacerbated by higher temperatures. Partial catalyst regeneration can be achieved by heating under N2O, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Future research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and developing effective regeneration methods to mitigate vanadium reduction, aiming to make N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, likely due to its O production for propane oxidation. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high as long as the vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage, preventing the formation of V2O5 nanocrystallites. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Advanced research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, particularly on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts initial propene yields, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, due to Fe-zeolites' reactive oxygen coordination. Coke-induced deactivation, rapidly diminishing propene yield, is a critical issue, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying iron site sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by acting as a mono-oxygen donor, facilitating propane dehydrogenation through iron species coordination (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms at the surface level, as current methods like TEOM and GC analysis lack this insight. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quotes 7, 8, and 9). Detailed studies on N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are required, necessitating advanced investigation methods like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption for comprehensive catalyst characterization (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than conventional oxidants. Iron zeolites, notably steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts achieving significant propylene yields (Quote 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge. Strategies to mitigate this include optimizing iron incorporation, enhancing catalyst stability, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Research indicates that steaming improves the catalytic performance of iron zeolites for N2O conversions, including ODHP (Quote 4), and reduces deactivation (Quote 20). Further investigation is needed to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to develop catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and leverages this potent greenhouse gas, as per quote [2]. Iron and vanadium-based catalysts show high C3H6 yield. However, catalyst deactivation, often due to coke formation (quote [4]), limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires research into stable catalysts and understanding deactivation mechanisms (quote [5]).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and reducing CO2 selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2, as observed with the addition of 300 ppm N2O (Quote 2). This effect is attributed to catalytic sites working in a more reduced and selective state (Quote 3). However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O inhibits non-selective sites and, in synergy with O2, modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, improving selectivity (Quote 19). Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species, enhanced by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. N2O's less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2 decreases active surface lattice oxygen, favoring propene over COx. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Advanced research is essential to overcome limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's role in coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. Oxygen significantly lowers propene yield compared to N2O and decreases propene selectivity, increasing COx formation. Oxygen negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production, severely affecting FeZSM-5's performance. Strategies include optimizing temperature to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming to develop cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, modifying nickel molybdate catalysts to reduce propane conversion and CO2 yield while increasing propylene yield. Adjusting N2O concentration optimizes catalytic performance by controlling the oxidation state of oxide catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as noted in [2]. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5 [3], are effective catalysts, showing superior performance after calcination [4]. However, catalyst deactivation [5] is a significant challenge, compounded by propane's reductant effect, complicating N2O conversion [6]. The unclear deactivation mechanism [7] and lack of strategies to prevent coke deposition [8] hinder catalyst longevity. Research should focus on elucidating deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to improve N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation, as seen in Quote 1 and 2. Well-dispersed vanadia species, noted in Quote 3, are vital for high selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, as in Quote 4, is better achieved with N2O, controlling selective oxidation. Advanced research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 by inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles exhibit no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species. This results in higher catalyst reduction and improved initial propene selectivity. Direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation are reduced in the presence of N2O. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 significantly impact selectivity and activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, highlighting the need for advanced research to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to its lower ability to reoxidize VOx species, which reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze propene oxidation to COx. This is beneficial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, as N2O leads to lower ODP activity. Strategies to address these include optimizing catalyst structure and composition to control the surface density of active oxygen species, developing methods to regenerate deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. The use of N2O can mitigate catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, and promotes molybdenum reduction for improved catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on stabilizing catalysts and optimizing conditions for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, as indicated by studies showing increased selectivity to propylene and reduced CO2 yield when N2O is added to the feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, are generated by steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and reducing deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise increases carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major challenge, with carbon deposits having a minor impact. Partial regeneration through N2O heating can restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, conditions that minimize vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced state in catalytic sites, directly oxidizing propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize selectivity, offering a promising research direction for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces the concentration of active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges arise from VOx agglomerization, leading to decreased propene selectivity when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate. N2O forms fewer reactive oxygen species than O2, explaining its advantage. A study using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts showed higher propene selectivity with N2O (80%) versus O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower turnover frequency. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP yields 24% propene at high temperatures, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites, due to N2O's monooxygen donation, excel in dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, most severe in Fe-beta, reduces propene yield. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility loss, indicating sites with varying coke sensitivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's mono-oxygen donor role in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as iron zeolites' performance exemplifies (Quote [1]). However, coke deposition causes significant catalyst deactivation, reducing propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability, particularly through in situ investigations of the ODHP reaction with N2O over iron-containing zeolites, which are currently unexplored (Quote [9]), and studies on catalyst regeneration and performance recovery (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP, particularly with iron zeolites, notably steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and optimize reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, making N2O-ODHP a more practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, effectively utilizing this potent greenhouse gas (Quote 1). Substituting N2O for oxygen significantly increases propylene yield, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts (Quote 2). Fe-ZSM-5 leads in C3H6 production, but catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality (Quote 4). Addressing this requires stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, making N2O-ODHP more viable (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by moderating propane and oxygen conversion, enhancing propylene yield, and reducing CO2 selectivity. At >300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species play a role, suggesting its less oxidative induction of ODHP compared to O2. However, pure N2O isn't advisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP. Research should focus on developing catalysts that maintain high selectivity and stability in the presence of N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced by VOx species coverage and N2O's lower reoxidation ability, reducing active surface lattice oxygen for selective propane oxidation. Excess lattice oxygen in active sites favors waste product formation. Atomic oxygen from N2O supports selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen leads to COx formation. Further research is needed to confirm these roles and address catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) using FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes significant deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 yields much lower C3H6 (<5%) and decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with nickel molybdate catalysts benefiting from low N2O concentrations. Optimizing promoter concentration modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, addressing stability and deactivation issues. Advanced research is crucial for refining N2O-ODHP for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation, as opposed to using dioxygen (Q[2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are pivotal catalysts for this process (Q[3]). However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductant role and complex N2O conversion, poses a significant challenge (Q[5], Q[6]). The unclear deactivation mechanism (Q[7]) and absence of effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and prolong catalyst life (Q[8]) are critical issues. Research should focus on elucidating deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance catalyst longevity, making N2O-ODHP a more practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over propane conversion (Quote 1). N2O decomposition being less favorable than O2 activation leads to higher propene selectivity (Quote 2). Full coverage of the support by well-dispersed vanadia species achieves high selectivity (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O ensures selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4). These insights highlight the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that curbs direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but ensures consistent propylene selectivity across VOx species by decreasing the surface density of active oxygen, favoring propylene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction, particularly advantageous with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O significantly curbs direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O minimizing non-selective reaction pathways. Advanced research is crucial to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high selectivity. However, N2O yields lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective. N2O's reduced ability to reoxidize VOx species suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization affects consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, addressable by controlling the surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion (Quote 2). Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity (Quote 3, 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and catalyst deactivation. Advanced research on stable catalysts and optimized reaction conditions could address these limitations, making N2O-ODHP more practical. -Sb2O4 and N2O synergistically control selectivity and inhibit non-selective sites in mixed catalysts, as shown by increased propylene selectivity and reduced oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, with mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge, with carbon deposits playing a minor role. Partial regeneration through N2O heating and full restoration with O2 are viable strategies. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and refining regeneration methods for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, crucial for selective propane oxidation to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability issues, vital for practical N2O-ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in propane ODHP over various catalysts, outperforming O2. This is attributed to N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species, leading to fewer active lattice oxygen sites and reduced propene oxidation to COx. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, a process less severe with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. Further research is needed on the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, as indicated by recent studies. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and assess their reactivity, providing insights into catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP with Fe-zeolites yields high propylene outputs, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, due to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced catalyst deactivation significantly impacts propylene yield, highlighting the need for stability improvements and deactivation prevention strategies for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, as per quote 1. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield, as noted in quote 2. In situ FTIR spectroscopy, as mentioned in quote 7, and TEOM-GC analysis are vital for understanding coke formation and deactivation mechanisms. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability, highlighted in quotes 9 and 10, are lacking, underlining the need for advanced research to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP industrially viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites like Fe-ZSM-5 (quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (quote 12). Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and in situ regeneration (quote 20). Further research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrate regeneration steps for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Replacing oxygen with N2O enhances propylene yield, especially with iron zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts, where Fe-ZSM-5 excels. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is essential to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, critical for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, increasing yield while reducing propane and oxygen conversion. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that still induce ODHP. Its presence shifts catalytic sites to a more reduced state, favoring selectivity. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is necessary to oxidize and regenerate the catalysts in the presence of N2O, otherwise, the catalyst deactivates quickly. Optimal selectivity in ODHP requires both O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. These findings highlight the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, optimized by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, up to 25% at 723 K, due to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, rapid deactivation from coke formation is a critical challenge, though higher temperatures can mitigate this. O2 yields much lower propene (<5%) and increases COx production. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research on understanding coke formation and improving catalyst regeneration could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially reducing propane conversion and oxygen consumption while enhancing propylene yield. However, excessive N2O concentration diminishes selectivity and promotes carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration optimizes catalyst performance, addressing stability and deactivation issues. Advanced research is essential to refine N2O-ODHP for industrial application, focusing on catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over dioxygen, reducing over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive properties, complicates N2O conversion. Unclear deactivation mechanisms and coke deposition limit catalyst longevity. Research should focus on understanding deactivation pathways, developing robust catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, improving catalyst durability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and favoring propene over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high propene selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, tackling catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2 due to its milder oxidizing strength, which restrains direct propane and subsequent propene oxidation to COx. This results in reduced catalytic activity but ensures consistent propylene selectivity across various VOx species, as observed in studies with V/MCM-41 catalysts. The benefit of N2O is attributed to a lower surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2 by inhibiting re-oxidation of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and up to three times greater propylene yield, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. Studies show initial propene selectivity is higher with N2O across various vanadium oxides. The oxidizing agent's nature, whether O2 or N2O, significantly influences catalytic performance, with N2O reducing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, highlighting the need for advanced research to make N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts due to its ability to promote a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene yields. N2O's lower reoxidation ability results in reduced ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx, a significant advantage. The degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation, with N2O mitigating the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can lead to catalyst deactivation. However, the lower activity of N2O compared to O2 presents a challenge for practical implementation. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Further research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by enhancing yield and reducing CO2 production and oxygen conversion. Its mechanism involves promoting molybdenum reduction, improving catalyst selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, with catalyst deactivation and stability as critical issues. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding how N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include improving catalyst stability and activity, optimizing reaction parameters, and exploring the synergistic effects of N2O and -Sb2O4 on selectivity modulation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique, with its real-time mass change measurements, offers three advantages over conventional microbalances: defined flow pattern, fast response time, and high mass resolution. Steam-activated FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance is tentatively linked to its iron constitution and porous structure, which may reduce pore blocking by coke and improve reactant/product transport. Direct N2O decomposition activity is higher in FeZSM-5, suggesting increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2, enhancing propylene yield. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced state in catalytic sites, as it inhibits non-selective oxygen species formation and selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration and promoter levels can optimize selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, minimizing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high until vanadium surface concentration exceeds monolayer coverage, leading to agglomerization and decreased selectivity. N2O mitigates this effect compared to O2. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer reactive oxygen species than O2, contributing to its selectivity. Prior research on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts showed higher propene selectivity (80%) with N2O versus O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges, EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is proposed to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves 24% propene yield at high temperatures, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation limits Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by acting as a mono-oxygen donor, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, coke deposition on iron zeolites causes rapid deactivation and reduced propylene yield (Quote [2]). Detailed in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are needed to understand catalyst regeneration and reusability (Quote [9] and [10]). Techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy are essential for studying deactivation mechanisms and carbonaceous deposits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene at lower temperatures compared to conventional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Further research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and resistance to deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process. As noted in quote [4], iron zeolites using N2O lead to remarkable propylene yields at lower operation temperatures. Yet, as highlighted in quote [6], iron zeolites strongly deactivate during ODHP with N2O due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, effectively utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Replacing O2 with N2O, especially in iron and vanadium catalysts, enhances propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and optimized conditions, making N2O-ODHP a viable option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and shifting catalytic sites to a more selective state. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that favor ODHP. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating molecular oxygen for regeneration. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity. Research should focus on developing catalysts that maintain stability and selectivity in the presence of N2O, addressing deactivation and carbon deposition challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on the support and N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms favor propene over COx. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical for practical implementation, necessitating advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its monooxygen donor property enhances propene selectivity compared to O2, which yields significantly lower propene and increases COx production. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, slow deactivation by increasing N2O conversion. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration cycles. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less deactivating active sites, and developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, providing a pure N2O source for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, initially enhancing yield and reducing CO2 and oxygen consumption. However, excess N2O decreases selectivity and promotes carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations can modulate catalyst oxidation states, improving performance. Critical challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity vs. dioxygen, reducing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a significant obstacle ([5]), exacerbated by propane's reductant role and unclear deactivation mechanisms ([6]). Research is vital to clarify deactivation, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, extending catalyst life and improving N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and enhancing selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support, optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration for selective propane and propene activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, curbing direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential slightly hampers catalytic activity due to less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is consistent for VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring selective propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by minimizing VOx species re-oxidation, leading to higher catalyst reduction and up to three times greater selectivity, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. Direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are reduced in the presence of N2O, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from N2O and the degree of catalyst reduction are key factors in propene selectivity enhancement. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation. Studies confirm that N2O's lower re-oxidation ability and the unique oxygen species it provides play critical roles in boosting propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, critical for high selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity compared to O2. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, requiring strategies to develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimize conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for lower ODP activity but also for higher propylene selectivity. Strategies to address catalyst limitations include advanced catalyst design and optimizing reaction conditions to enhance selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased propane and oxygen conversion, and reduced CO2 yield (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity (Quote 3, 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical implementation. Research directions should focus on addressing catalyst deactivation and stability. N2O and -Sb2O4 may have a synergistic effect in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 12), suggesting potential for improved catalysts with higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which minimizes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating can restore activity, but full recovery necessitates oxygen. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, reducing vanadium reduction, and refining regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, leading to a more reduced state for catalytic sites. This limits non-selective oxygen species and regulates catalyst oxidation. Dissociated O from N2O directly oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can refine selectivity, a strategy to improve catalyst performance and address practical implementation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, curbing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges arise with V2O5 nanocrystallites, leading to a drop in propene selectivity. Research is crucial to understand oxygen species from O2 and N2O for practical N2O-ODHP. Studies confirm higher propene selectivity with N2O, reaching 80% at 10% propane conversion, versus 50% with O2. The slower reoxidation with N2O limits consecutive oxidation products, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves high propylene selectivity, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, due to its monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation limits Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation, affecting propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability (Quotes [6] and [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene production at lower temperatures compared to conventional oxidants, with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 iron zeolites achieving up to 22% yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation rates by decreasing Brnsted acid sites, indicating strategies to optimize catalyst formulations and reaction conditions are crucial. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and explore alternative iron sources, aiming to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas and enhancing yields with iron and vanadium catalysts. Rapid deactivation, often due to coke, limits N2O's practicality, necessitating stable catalysts and optimized conditions to minimize coke for viable N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, increasing yield while reducing propane and oxygen conversion. At higher concentrations, N2O selectively promotes ODHP by providing oxygen species. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to catalyst deactivation, necessitating molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's ability to inhibit non-selective sites and modulate catalyst oxidation state during ODHP highlights its potential for improving selectivity. For instance, adding 300 ppm N2O to the reaction increases propylene yield and selectivity (quote [2]). The presence of N2O allows catalytic sites to work in a more reduced and selective state (quote [3]). Molecular oxygen is necessary alongside N2O to prevent catalyst deactivation and ensure its regeneration (quote [17]). These findings suggest that N2O, in the presence of O2, can fully explain the better selectivity of catalysts in ODHP (quote [19]). Further research on optimizing N2O concentration and catalyst design is essential for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and N2O's use. N2O's reduced reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor role and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. Coke formation causes significant deactivation, reducing yields, but higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 yields lower C3H6 compared to N2O. Research should optimize conditions, develop coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Understanding coke formation and identifying less susceptible catalysts are critical. A pure N2O source through selective catalyst systems for low-temperature NH3 oxidation could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances initial propylene yield and selectivity over molecular oxygen, though excessive N2O reduces selectivity and increases carbonaceous byproducts. Optimizing promoter concentrations can improve catalyst performance. Advanced research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, outperforming dioxygen which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts in N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive properties, is a significant challenge. The complex deactivation mechanism and coke deposition limit catalyst lifespan. Advanced research is imperative to develop stable catalysts and conditions that mitigate coke formation, crucial for the practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and increasing yield, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, essential for practical implementation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity further.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This is due to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion reactions. Unlike O2, N2O ensures consistent propene selectivity between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, highlighting its potential in practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts catalyst selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, compared to O2, due to its influence on the reduction degree of VOx species. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, impacts COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts, whereas N2O yields mononuclear oxygen species, which are considered selective. Catalyst deactivation and stability are significant challenges, necessitating strategies to develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimize reaction conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a viable option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 catalysts benefit from N2O, promoting molybdenum reduction and enhancing selectivity. Under N2O, molybdenum in NiMoO4 operates in a more reduced state, increasing selectivity. N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical application. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through more stable catalysts or optimized reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its mesoporous structure that reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, revealing deactivation patterns. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation, as N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. Recombination of atomic oxygen and desorption as O2 can react with coke, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per quotes [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction (quotes [3], [4], [5], and [7]), poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures (quote [8]) indicates potential research avenues for enhancing catalyst stability and exploring alternative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption, fostering a reduced catalyst state, and selectively oxidizing propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration and promoter levels can optimize selectivity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is vital for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active oxygen sites, suppressing propene over-oxidation. Selectivity remains high until vanadium surface concentration exceeds monolayer coverage, leading to direct propane oxidation, which N2O mitigates more effectively than O2. Research suggests that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. Advanced studies aim to identify oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41, critical for enhancing catalyst performance and addressing limitations in N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP achieves high propylene selectivity, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Steam-activated Fe-zeolites, particularly with N2O's monooxygen donation, enhance propane dehydrogenation efficiency. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably in Fe-beta zeolites, diminishes propene yield. Differing iron site sensitivity to coke affects deactivation rates. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (1). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (2). Advanced techniques like TEOM coupled with GC have been pivotal in correlating deactivation with coking, yet they lack insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms (3-5). In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, essential for understanding deactivation (6-8). Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are scarce, necessitating further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation (9-12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields, achieving up to 22% with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 at 643-773 K. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, but steam activation reduces this by minimizing Brnsted acid sites. Further research is needed to optimize catalyst formulations for stability, minimize coke formation, and explore alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, notably with iron-zeolites and vanadium catalysts, where Fe-ZSM-5 excels. However, rapid deactivation, mainly due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is vital for improved catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, aiming to refine N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's redox state, as evidenced by a 300 ppm addition increasing propylene yield and selectivity (Quote 2). At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP (Quote 5). However, pure N2O leads to rapid catalyst deactivation from carbon deposition without O2 (Quote 17), necessitating the presence of O2 to oxidize and regenerate the catalysts. N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the O2-N2O synergy modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity (Quote 19). Research should focus on optimizing N2O-O2 ratios to improve catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials enhance propylene selectivity, tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, requiring advanced research to overcome these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation limits performance, with higher temperatures mitigating deactivation. Compared to O2, N2O significantly boosts C3H6 yields, as O2 addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying cost-effective catalysts for N2O production, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as demonstrated by nickel molybdate-catalyzed reactions where it boosts propylene yield and selectivity, reduces oxygen consumption, and minimizes CO2 production at low concentrations. However, high N2O concentrations decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can improve catalyst performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, addressing challenges in deactivation and stability. This makes N2O-ODHP a promising area for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by mitigating over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Q[2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are pivotal catalysts (Q[3]), yet face deactivation (Q[5]) and complex N2O conversion in propane-rich environments (Q[6]). Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms (Q[7]) and develop stable catalysts to curb coke deposition (Q[8]), advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, as vanadia species on the support enhance propene selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its milder oxidizing strength diminishes catalytic activity by less efficient re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is uniform across catalyst forms with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage stems from lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, attributed to its reduced re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective for catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O impacts selectivity and activity, with N2O decreasing CO and CO2 formation. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation persist, necessitating advanced research to optimize catalyst performance for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts by achieving a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective. Higher polymerized VOx species have higher activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are more significant in the presence of O2 than N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by promoting molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4 catalysts (quote 3), enhancing selectivity (quote 7). Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, indicating practical limitations. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Research strategies should focus on developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction (quote 10), to make N2O-ODHP industrially viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and extraframework iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. TEOM analysis reveals faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but can also lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a key challenge. Partial regeneration under N2O at high temperatures is possible, but full activity restoration requires O2. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    