Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state, and dissociating oxygen to oxidize propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration and promoter levels can improve selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing critical challenges for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, evident across iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation, especially with V2O5 nanocrystallites, causing a drop in propene selectivity. Research indicates that unlike N2O, other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. Studies on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts reveal N2O yields higher propene selectivity at half the propane conversion rate compared to O2, underscoring the need for advanced research to address limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP achieves high propene yields (24%), comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Steam-activated Fe-zeolites, particularly effective due to N2O's monooxygen donation, enhance propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propene yield, necessitating regeneration. Among Fe-zeolites, deactivation rates vary, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating differing sensitivity to coke. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in iron zeolites enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, a significant advantage. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propylene yield. In situ techniques, notably TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy, are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms, crucial for improving catalyst stability and reversibility. Advanced research is required to fully comprehend the deactivation process and enhance the reusability of regenerated catalysts, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as evidenced by recent studies using iron zeolites. Steam-activated iron zeolites are particularly effective, achieving significant propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge, as seen in the rapid deactivation of iron zeolites. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to overcome these limitations, making N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process. The decrease in activity over time is influenced by the catalyst's acidity, with a high number of protonic acid sites accelerating deactivation by catalyzing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP leverages its potent greenhouse gas properties, enhancing environmental sustainability, and significantly boosts propylene selectivity, particularly with iron and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality compared to softer oxidants like CO2. Advanced research is imperative to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, crucial for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield, as evidenced by a 300 ppm addition increasing propylene selectivity (Quote 2). Its mechanism involves promoting a more reduced state of catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity (Quote 3). At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that can induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2 (Quote 5). However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen, which is crucial for catalyst regeneration (Quote 17). N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODHP are key to understanding its benefits and limitations (Quote 19). Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, tunable with N2O. Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Decreased lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen atoms promote CO and CO2 formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at high temperatures, significantly outperforming O2, which produces <5% propene. N2O's efficiency is attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability in zeolites to coordinate reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. Oxygen addition decreases propene selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting intermediates essential for propene production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore mechanisms of coke formation and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, with low concentrations boosting yield and selectivity, reducing O2 consumption and CO2. Higher concentrations decrease selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, improves catalyst performance, addressing stability and deactivation issues. Advanced research is needed to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to dioxygen, which often results in CO and CO2 formation, lowering olefin yields. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with improved performance after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, intensified by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is complex, lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Advanced research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts is vital for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites, due to less favorable N2O decomposition vs. O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, key for propane and propene activation, as evidenced by studies showing increased propene selectivity and decreased overall activity with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, due to its milder oxidizing strength that limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in reduced catalytic activity as N2O less efficiently re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is uniform between VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2 where V2O5 lacks selectivity. N2O's advantage stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP by limiting VOx species re-oxidation, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. This results in up to three times greater selectivity compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impact selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, highlighting the need for advanced research to make N2O-ODHP a viable practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. The degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation, with catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 demonstrating this effect. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, with N2O's lower oxidizing ability affecting the reoxidation of reduced VOx species. Strategies for practical implementation include optimizing catalyst structure for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to define the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O over reduced VOx species and to develop new catalyst formulations for N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by a 32% increase in selectivity for pure NiMoO4 catalysts (Quote 6). It reduces propane conversion and CO2 yield, as seen with a 15% decrease in propane conversion (Quote 6). N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity (Quote 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical implementation. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability are needed. N2O's role is similar to -Sb2O4 in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 8), promoting molybdenum in a reduced state for better selectivity (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, are generated by steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a major drawback. TEOM correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is critical for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Direct N2O decomposition activity is higher in FeZSM-5 than in Fe-silicalite. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can react with coke, leading to COx and partial catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and deactivation resistance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant issue. Partial regeneration is possible with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity restoration requires O2. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques, as carbon deposit formation slightly influences deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced state in catalytic sites, as it inhibits non-selective oxygen species formation and boosts propane oxidation to propene. Adjusting promoter concentrations can further modulate selectivity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Slower VOx reoxidation with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, curbing propene over-oxidation. Challenges arise from increased VOx site activity with higher agglomerization, reducing selectivity when V2O5 nanocrystallites are dominant. Research indicates non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation, crucial for advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, with Fe-zeolites achieving 24% yield at high temperatures, matching V and Mo-based catalysts. N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species are key. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly coke formation, hinders performance, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Addressing deactivation, involving active site reduction, site quality, and pore accessibility, is crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke buildup, impacting propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research is critical, including in situ FTIR spectroscopy to understand deactivation mechanisms and coke formation on the catalyst surface (Quote [6]). Notably, in situ investigations of selective oxidation with N2O over iron-containing zeolites are lacking (Quote [9]), highlighting the need for detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers advantages with lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, notably achieving up to 22% yield with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as catalyst regeneration and optimizing reaction conditions, are crucial. Further research should explore the role of acidity in deactivation and enhance catalyst resistance for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP capitalizes on its greenhouse gas status for environmental benefit and boosts propylene selectivity, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, as underscored in quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, increasing propylene yield and decreasing CO2 production, as evidenced by the addition of 300 ppm N2O. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, further promoting ODHP. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration, as molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst oxidation and regeneration in the presence of N2O. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and its synergy with O2 for optimal catalyst oxidation state are essential for improved selectivity in ODHP, suggesting promising research directions to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) using FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K, outperforming O2 due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate deactivation and enhance N2O conversion. O2's presence decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less deactivating active sites, and creating cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP yields higher propylene selectivity than O2, as seen with nickel molybdate catalysts, enhancing propylene yield and reducing CO2. Adjusting N2O concentration optimizes catalyst performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability issues limit practical implementation, highlighting the need for advanced research to address these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity vs. dioxygen, reducing over-oxidation to CO/CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are pivotal catalysts, yet deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature, is a major obstacle. Research on deactivation mechanisms, developing robust catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation is crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced overall activity but increased propene formation compared to O2. Its less favorable decomposition decreases active sites, enhancing selectivity. High propene selectivity is achieved with vanadia species fully covering the support. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for wider application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 by limiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, especially for VOx species on MCM-41 catalysts. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O but are non-selective with O2. N2O's advantage lies in reducing surface oxygen density, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times over O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction and minimized direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is crucial to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in a higher reduction degree of VOx species, suppressing nonselective consecutive propylene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propylene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propylene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODHP activity compared to O2. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with N2O helping to mitigate these by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation, focusing on understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by increased selectivity and reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2, 6). It facilitates molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity (Quote 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation (Quote 5, 11). Strategies to address these include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions. -Sb2O4 controls selectivity, and N2O may inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities, and the more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP enhances propene selectivity by effectively reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration is achievable by heating under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing advanced regeneration techniques to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, leading to a more reduced state of catalytic sites. Oxygen from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene, improving selectivity. Adjusting N2O concentration and promoter levels can address catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a promising area for advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, as evidenced in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide catalysts. Kinetic analysis reveals slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to reduced active lattice oxygen and suppressed propene oxidation to COx. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity. At low vanadium surface concentration, propene selectivities are similar with both oxidants, but at higher concentrations, N2O mitigates the drop in selectivity and direct propane oxidation better than O2. Experimentally, N2O showed half the propane conversion turnover frequency of O2 but doubled propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP achieves high propene selectivity, akin to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, due to Fe-zeolites' capability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. Catalyst deactivation, particularly by coke, is a significant challenge, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, indicating sites with differing coke sensitivity. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is vital to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, improving iron zeolites' performance [1]. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propylene yield [2]. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking but lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP [7][8]. Research gaps include in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites [9] and detailed studies on catalyst reusability [10]. Characterization methods like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption are essential for evaluating catalyst reversibility [11][12].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to conventional oxidants, as reported by independent research groups. Iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5, exhibit superior performance, with iron impurities boosting propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, as observed in studies. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and explore alternative iron sources to enhance the practicality of N2O-ODHP, addressing the limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, boosting propylene selectivity over oxygen, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Research aims to enhance stability and understand deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion while boosting propylene yield, as evidenced by its ability to modify catalytic performances (Quote 2). It promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity (Quote 3). At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, albeit less oxidizing than O2 (Quote 5). This improvement in selectivity due to N2O opens prospects for selective mesoporous catalysts (Quote 6). However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is crucial for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O's role includes inhibiting non-selective sites and modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity in ODHP, as the presence of both O2 and N2O fully explains the better selectivity (Quote 19). Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation, and enhancing selectivity with well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3. Its lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, and reduced active lattice oxygen in VOx species aids propane oxidation to propene. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical for practical implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a monooxygen donor in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, achieving 25% yields at 723 K. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits performance. Increasing temperatures to 773 K slows deactivation, correlating with higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant significantly reduces C3H6 yields compared to N2O. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and improving regeneration methods, essential for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, initially lowering propane conversion but boosting propylene yield. It reduces oxygen consumption and CO2. Higher N2O can decrease selectivity. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O improves catalyst stability, addressing key challenges. Advanced research is needed for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, showing improved performance post-calcination (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and lack of methods to prevent coke deposition (Quote 8) limit catalyst longevity. Research should focus on understanding deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation and maximize catalyst lifetime, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation, as seen in Quotes 1 and 2. Well-dispersed vanadia species, as noted in Quote 3, enhance selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O, as in Quote 4, controls selective oxidation and combustion, vital for practical implementation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for feasible application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, inhibiting direct propane oxidation and propene's conversion to COx due to its milder oxidizing strength. This effect is consistent across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity issues with V2O5. N2O's advantage stems from lowering surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP, outperforming O2 by up to three times, especially with bulk-like V2O5 species. This is due to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly affect selectivity and activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, requiring advanced research for practical implementation. Strategies should focus on optimizing catalyst properties and understanding the role of oxygen species in oxidation pathways, as evidenced by studies on vanadium oxides and isotopically labeled 18O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, due to its ability to reduce VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but enhances propylene selectivity by suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of VOx species and their degree of polymerization influence catalytic performance. N2O reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which are formed from O2 and catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research to develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and to optimize reaction conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Strategies include understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction (Quote 7), enhance selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, alongside catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions for better activity and selectivity (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, crucial for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its iron constitution and porous structure. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA surpass those of commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are noteworthy. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation due to coke. TEOM, coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time measurements correlating activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition resist coke deactivation, potentially regenerating the catalyst surface. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and developing strategies to mitigate deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by inhibiting peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise leads to carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant hurdle. Partial regeneration is achievable by heating under N2O at high temperatures, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. This curbs non-selective oxygen species and controls catalyst oxidation, crucial for selectivity. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical. N2O's dissociated O directly oxidizes propane to propene, further boosting selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based materials, outperforming O2 due to slower reoxidation of VOx species, leading to fewer active lattice oxygen sites and reduced propene oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with increased agglomerization affecting propene selectivity. Advanced research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, aiming to optimize catalysts for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP using Fe-zeolites achieves high propylene yields (24%), matching V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propylene yield, though regeneration in pure oxygen can restore activity. Deactivation rates vary among Fe-zeolites, with FeZSM-5 showing diverse iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility, indicating a need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's unique role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation by coke (Quote 2) poses a significant challenge to propylene yield. In situ FTIR spectroscopy (Quote 7) and TEOMGC (Quote 11) are essential for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding deactivation mechanisms (Quote 6). The reusability of regenerated catalysts (Quote 10) remains a critical research gap, highlighting the need for advanced studies to address catalyst limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites show superior propylene yields compared to other preparation methods. Iron impurities in steamed commercial H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and incorporate in situ regeneration techniques. Further exploration of iron sources, catalyst design, and integrated process designs could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Substituting N2O for oxygen significantly increases propylene yield, especially with iron-based and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Advanced research is crucial to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more practical and viable option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and providing less oxidizing oxygen species at concentrations over 300 ppm. However, pure N2O isn't viable as molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst regeneration, preventing rapid deactivation. The synergy of O2 and N2O modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, crucial for improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and further tuned by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, while more oxygen promotes waste products. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen is involved in COx formation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, slow deactivation due to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O, and small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production. Strategies to address deactivation include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less susceptible active sites to enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, boosts nickel molybdate catalyst performance, and allows for catalyst oxidation state modulation for improved stability. Adjusting N2O concentration is crucial for tackling deactivation issues, emphasizing the need for advanced research to optimize N2O concentration for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to dioxygen, which causes over-oxidation. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on N2O conversion, is a major challenge. The complex deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP necessitates research into preventing coke deposition and prolonging catalyst lifetime, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration and reducing active sites, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation (quote [2], [4]). Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance propene selectivity (quote [3]). These insights highlight the need for advanced research to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, inhibiting direct propane oxidation and propene to COx conversion due to its milder oxidizing strength. Despite lower activity, N2O ensures uniform propylene selectivity across VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. This benefit stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. Studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts confirm this, attributing the improvement to the nature of oxygen species from N2O, which reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, highlighting the need for advanced research to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is critical for high selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influence COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion (quotes 2, 5). Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts catalyst selectivity (quote 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, impacting practicality. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and reducing deactivation, potentially through more stable catalysts or optimized conditions. Synergistic effects of -Sb2O4 and N2O on NiMoO4's selectivity are noted, with N2O inhibiting oxygen adsorption and promoting molybdenum reduction (quotes 8, 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, with initial propene yields significantly higher than commercial zeolites despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities, and the more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to mesopores from dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by effectively reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major challenge, with carbonaceous deposits playing a minor role. Partial regeneration through high-temperature N2O treatment is possible, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, leading to a reduced state that curbs non-selective oxygen species and regulates catalyst oxidation. Dissociated O from N2O specifically oxidizes propane to propene, boosting selectivity. Adjusting promoter concentration offers a strategy to optimize selectivity, tackling catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen sites, minimizing propene oxidation to COx. High propene selectivity is maintained until vanadium surface concentration reaches monolayer coverage. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, but N2O mitigates this effect. Non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. The VOx/MCM-41 catalyst shows a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, halved with N2O, yet propene selectivity doubles at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy identifies oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41, evaluating their reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves high propene yields (24%) akin to top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites excel due to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, hampers propene yield. Advanced research is imperative to curb deactivation and bolster catalyst stability, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in iron zeolites optimizes propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propylene selectivity. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, diminishing propylene yield. Advanced research, including in situ spectroscopic studies, is crucial to elucidate deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst stability, addressing limitations for practical ODHP implementation. [1] Iron zeolites' performance in ODHP is attributed to N2O's specificity and the coordination of reactive oxygen species. [2] Yet, coke-induced deactivation remains a major hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, notably achieving up to 22% yield with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore alternative iron sources. Steam activation reduces deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites, as observed in improved zeolite performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts (Quote 2), but faces challenges in catalyst stability due to coke formation (Quote 4). Advanced research on stable catalysts and deactivation resistance could enhance N2O's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, increasing yield while reducing propane and O2 conversion. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP. Its presence shifts catalytic sites to a more reduced state, promoting selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP. Research should focus on developing catalysts that maintain stability and selectivity in the presence of N2O, addressing the need for O2 for regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is optimized by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms favor propene over COx formation, with atomic oxygen species from N2O linked to selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation limits performance, with higher temperatures mitigating this issue. O2 significantly reduces propene yields and negatively impacts propene intermediates. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity and nickel molybdate catalyst performance. Modulating N2O concentration optimizes catalyst oxidation state, addressing stability and deactivation issues. Further research on N2O concentration is critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are key catalysts for this process (quote [3]). However, catalyst deactivation (quote [5]) is a significant challenge, especially due to propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion. The unclear deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP (quote [7]) and the lack of strategies to prevent coke deposition (quote [8]) highlight the need for advanced research to improve catalyst stability and reaction conditions for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing active sites and favoring propene over propane conversion (Quotes [1], [2]). Well-dispersed vanadia species achieve high selectivity (Quote [3]). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O over O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote [4]). Catalyst stability and deactivation challenges necessitate advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propylene selectivity by reducing the surface density of active oxygen, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction. N2O also minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Despite these advantages, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation persist, highlighting the need for advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, especially on alumina and silica supports, due to its lower oxidizing ability, which increases the reduction degree of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are more significant with O2 than N2O, impacting catalytic performance. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, necessitating strategies like controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimized reaction conditions favoring selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms, their role in selectivity, and to develop new catalyst formulations that sustain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production, as per quotes 2, 5, and 6. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, with palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are crucial, where N2O promotes molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity (quote 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, alongside catalyst deactivation. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and optimize conditions, potentially making N2O-ODHP a practical reality. The role of -Sb2O4 and the mechanism by which N2O inhibits non-selective sites and adjusts catalyst reduction are highlighted in quotes 8, 9, 10, and 12.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 shows notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 and FeBEA outperform commercial zeolites in initial propene yield, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP, offering a potential strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by effectively reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant issue as noted in [3] and [5]. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen, as shown in [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods to advance N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its dissociated O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration optimizes selectivity. Challenges like catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, as evidenced across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. While selectivity decreases with vanadium agglomerization, N2O better mitigates total propane oxidation than O2. Kinetic studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation, highlighting the need for experimental evidence on oxygen species from N2O and O2 reoxidation. Compared to O2, N2O halves propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity, as demonstrated in kinetic studies. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, offering a path for advanced research to overcome limitations in catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP using Fe-zeolites achieves high propene yields (24%) at 773-798 K, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, limits performance, with varying sensitivity in FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is crucial to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced in situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are vital for understanding deactivation mechanisms, yet detailed studies on N2O-ODHP with iron zeolites are limited (Quotes 3-5). The reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored, highlighting the need for comprehensive research to address these limitations and improve practical implementation (Quotes 6-12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity and lower operation temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced research is essential for practical implementation, focusing on catalyst design and process integration to overcome limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over oxygen, as iron and vanadium catalysts excel, per quotes [2] and [3]. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation (quote [4]), hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires improving stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms (quote [5]). Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by promoting a more selective catalyst state (Quote 3), inhibiting non-selective propane activation (Quote 8), and limiting CO2 formation (Quote 2). It achieves this by inhibiting O2 adsorption (Quote 4), leading to a reduced state of catalytic sites (Quote 3), and at higher concentrations, N2O dissociates to provide less oxidizing oxygen species (Quote 5). However, using pure N2O is unadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O's role in enhancing selectivity is attributed to its ability to inhibit non-selective sites (Quote 7) and synergize with O2, maintaining the catalyst's optimal oxidation state (Quote 19). Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. VOx species coverage and N2O's reduced reoxidation ability enhance selectivity. Lower lattice oxygen concentration aids selective propane oxidation to propylene, while excess favors waste products. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is vital for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) using FeZSM-5 catalysts showcases high propene yields, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a critical challenge, significantly reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures can mitigate deactivation by enhancing N2O conversion. O2, as an alternative oxidant, drastically lowers propene yields and increases COx production compared to N2O. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and implementing efficient regeneration cycles. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible active sites, aiming to create cost-effective, pure N2O sources for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, with nickel molybdate catalysts enhancing yield at low N2O levels. High N2O concentrations reduce selectivity and favor carbonaceous products. Modulating promoter concentrations can optimize catalyst oxidation state, improving performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is vital for practical N2O-ODHP, necessitating advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO/CO2, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts, with improved performance post-calcination. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant effect, complicates N2O conversion. Unclear deactivation mechanisms and coke deposition limit catalyst lifespan. Advanced research on deactivation, stable catalysts, and minimizing coke is crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and favoring propene formation, as seen by its replacement of O2, which reduces overall activity but increases selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity by minimizing strong propene adsorption. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation, as it ensures a steady-state concentration that favors propene over propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, curbing direct propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This enhances selectivity by reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles and dispersed VOx species exhibit similar propene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. Advanced research is crucial to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting the re-oxidation of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and up to three times greater propylene yield compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. The nature of oxygen species from N2O influences selectivity and activity, minimizing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, thus boosting initial propene selectivity. Advanced research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, as it enhances the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species leads to lower ODP activity than O2. N2O minimizes the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly related to the degree of reduction and the nature of oxygen species, are critical challenges. Advanced research is needed to develop strategies that can address these limitations, such as optimizing catalyst structure and composition to enhance stability and selectivity, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4, -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide are pivotal, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring research on stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and new catalysts for higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests synergistic effects in mixed catalysts (Quote 10), crucial for advancing N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 shows notable resistance to deactivation, with initial propene yields significantly higher than over commercial zeolites. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities, with extraframework iron species responsible for propane oxydehydrogenation. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major challenge. Partial regeneration is possible under N2O at high temperatures, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Oxygen from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration optimizes selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as studies confirm. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O decreases the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, suppressing consecutive oxidation of propene to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, but selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. A study found propane conversion turnover frequency was 0.016 molC3H8 mol-1 V s-1 with O2, half with N2O, but propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves 24% propene yield, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is due to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's unique role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, as seen in iron zeolites' superior performance [1]. However, coke formation significantly deactivates these catalysts, reducing propylene yield [2]. Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor coke deposition and surface changes, but they lack insights into deactivation mechanisms. Research is essential to understand iron zeolites' deactivation in C3H8 + N2O reactions and catalyst regeneration [6]. The reusability of regenerated catalysts remains a critical area for further exploration [10].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 iron zeolites achieve up to 22% propylene yield. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, but steam activation reduces deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites that catalyze coke formation. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Further research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore the role of acidity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, notably with iron zeolites and vanadium catalysts, as per quote 2. Fe-ZSM-5 leads in C3H6 yield. However, rapid deactivation, often due to coke, as stated in quote 4, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and deeper insights into deactivation mechanisms, as highlighted in quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, increasing yield while reducing propane and oxygen conversion. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP. It promotes a more selective state in catalytic sites (Quote 3). However, pure N2O causes catalyst deactivation; molecular oxygen is essential for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O reduces catalysts, leading to carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity (Quote 19). Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced by well-dispersed VOx species and N2O's lower reoxidation ability, reducing active surface lattice oxygen and favoring propane to propene conversion. Excess lattice oxygen in active sites promotes waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen contributes to COx formation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields superior propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, deteriorating performance. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over O2, particularly at lower concentrations. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity, underscoring the need for concentration optimization to maintain catalyst stability. Advanced research is essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, focusing on catalyst stability and selectivity enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by mitigating over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation, as seen in Quote 2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5 (Quote 3), are pivotal catalysts for this process. However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant hurdles. Understanding the deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and preventing coke deposition (Quote 8) are critical for improving catalyst lifetime. Advanced research is imperative to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites, favoring propene over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity further. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for high-performance ODHP, as evidenced by its ability to increase propene selectivity while reducing propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 by inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This is due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which reduces the surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, outperforming O2 by up to three times, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. This is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts catalyst selectivity and activity. Despite these advantages, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability persist, highlighting the need for advanced research to optimize the N2O-ODHP process for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts due to a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high selectivity. However, N2O yields lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Potential solutions include developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species. Further research aims to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by promoting molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4 catalysts, evidenced by reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield. Challenges include catalyst deactivation, which can be addressed by developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and exploring catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests potential synergies in mixed catalysts. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, are generated by steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. A major issue is deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. TEOM correlates activity and deactivation through real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major challenge, with carbon deposits playing a minor role. Partial regeneration under N2O at high temperatures is possible, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and directly oxidizing propane to propene, as it works by increasing catalyst reduction rate and limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration and promoter levels could optimize selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, evident across iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propylene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' increased activity for propylene oxidation with agglomeration leads to lower selectivity and propane's total oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Research indicates N2O forms fewer non-lattice oxygen species from gas-phase O2, contributing to COx formation. Studies aim to identify these species using EPR spectroscopy on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. At 10% propane conversion, N2O halves the turnover frequency but doubles propylene selectivity compared to O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves high initial propene yields of 24%, comparable to top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor role and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, notably Fe-beta, indicating complex deactivation mechanisms involving reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by enabling efficient propane dehydrogenation, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). Monitoring coking with the TEOM technique coupled with GC analysis offers insights into deactivation, but surface-level mechanisms remain elusive. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed to monitor coke formation and surface acidity changes in real time, crucial for a deeper understanding of ODHP. Research gaps exist in selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability, highlighting the need for detailed in situ studies and regeneration analysis to address limitations and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants, with iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies include optimizing iron incorporation and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Steam activation reduces Brnsted sites, slowing deactivation. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Further research on catalyst stability, the role of acidity in ODHP, and process designs with regeneration could make N2O-ODHP more practical for implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts, but faces challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, primarily due to coke formation. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts and minimizing coke formation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalyst state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At >300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute, though less oxidizing than O2. Pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in enhancing selectivity is attributed to its inhibition of non-selective sites and synergistic effect with O2, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst regeneration in the presence of N2O, as pure N2O leads to high carbon formation and quick deactivation. For instance, adding 300 ppm N2O to a NiMoO4/[Si,V]-MCM-41 catalyst significantly improves propylene selectivity while decreasing propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 enhances selectivity, while N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene yield compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, whereas polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, highlighting N2O's selective oxidation advantage.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a monooxygen donor in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 boosts propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits its efficiency. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate deactivation by increasing N2O conversion. Oxygen's presence significantly lowers propylene yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, improving yield and reducing CO2. At high N2O levels, selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate catalyst oxidation states, addressing deactivation and stability. Research should optimize promoter levels for enhanced stability and selectivity, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over dioxygen, reducing over-oxidation and carbon oxides ([2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a significant obstacle ([5]), exacerbated by propane's reductant effect and complex N2O conversion ([6]). The deactivation mechanism is unclear ([7]), lacking methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst life ([8]). Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions for practical N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites, favoring propene over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, crucial for selective oxidation, is better achieved with N2O than O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, boosts propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, despite reducing catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is unaffected by VOx species dispersion with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage stems from lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, as evidenced by studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, achieving up to three times higher selectivity, especially for bulk-like V2O5 species. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. Initial propene selectivity is significantly improved with N2O, and direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are minimized. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, indicating a role beyond the reduction degree of vanadium sites. Despite these advantages, catalyst stability and deactivation remain critical challenges, highlighting the need for advanced research to make N2O-ODHP a viable option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts compared to O2, due to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen being nonselective for ODHP. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that N2O can lead to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are more significant with O2 than N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, requiring strategies that focus on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a practical option.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by 32% for pure NiMoO4 catalysts, promotes molybdenum reduction, and improves selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield. Research should focus on developing catalysts that control selectivity and inhibit non-selective sites, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. FeZSM-5 shows notable resistance to deactivation by coke, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke. Steam activation is vital for high catalytic activities, with extraframework iron species crucial for activity. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by uniquely reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction as noted in [3] and [5], is a critical issue. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as in [8], partially restores activity, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, keeping sites in a reduced state conducive to selective propane oxidation. Adjusting promoter concentration optimizes selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, highlighting N2O-ODHP's potential for advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based materials, outperforming O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, curbing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high until vanadium surface concentration exceeds monolayer coverage. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, selectivity drops, but N2O lessens this impact. N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation than O2. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst exhibited 80% propene selectivity with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy identified oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, revealing N2O's advantages. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves high propene yields (24%) akin to V and Mo-based catalysts with O2. N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and Fe-zeolites' coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation are pivotal. However, coke formation deactivates catalysts, rapidly reducing propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP, enhancing propylene selectivity, is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, coke deactivation (Quote [2]) significantly challenges propylene yield. In situ spectroscopic studies, notably FTIR (Quote [7]), are crucial for understanding deactivation and regeneration mechanisms. Research gaps exist in selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites (Quote [9]) and catalyst reusability (Quote [10]), highlighting the need for detailed investigation to overcome limitations and advance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, notably achieving up to 22% yield with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on iron sources and enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation could significantly improve the feasibility of N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, notably with iron zeolites and vanadium catalysts (quote 2). Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 yield (quote 3). However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation (quote 4), limits N2O's practicality. Addressing stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms (quote 5) are key research needs. Strategies should focus on stable catalysts, coke reduction, and deactivation resistance for viable N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state (Quote [3]), inhibiting non-selective propane activation (Quote [8]), and limiting non-selective oxygen species formation (Quote [4]). At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that aid ODHP (Quote [5]). However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating O2 for regeneration (Quote [17]). Research should focus on optimizing N2O and O2 ratios to maintain catalyst stability and enhance propylene yield (Quote [19]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 enhance selectivity, and N2O's lower reoxidation activity increases propene yield compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms prefer propene over COx. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is vital for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields high propylene selectivity, up to 25% at 723 K, due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propylene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O, and small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify less deactivating active sites. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation by providing a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic performance, with increased yield, reduced oxygen consumption, and lower CO2 at low N2O concentrations. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical for practical implementation, highlighting the need for advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation (Q[2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5 (Q[3]), are efficient catalysts. Challenges include catalyst deactivation (Q[5]) and complex N2O conversion on iron-zeolites (Q[6]). The deactivation mechanism (Q[7]) and coke deposition (Q[8]) require research for improved catalyst stability and lifetime, crucial for N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation, as seen in quotes [1] and [2]. Optimizing active lattice oxygen with N2O, as in quote [4], controls selective oxidation and combustion. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which curbs direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering distinct advantages. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges. Advanced research is needed to develop catalysts that maintain high propylene selectivity and stability under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts compared to oxygen (O2), due to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity but enhances selectivity by not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze propene oxidation to COx. The degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation, with lower reoxidation ability of N2O responsible for lower ODP activity yet higher propylene selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges that can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and enhanced molybdenum reduction (Quotes 2, 3, 7). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed, with N2O significantly increasing propylene selectivity (Quote 6). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research is needed to develop stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and understand N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 (Quote 10), aiming to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, as it generates extraframework iron species responsible for the oxydehydrogenation of propane with N2O. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to dealumination upon steam treatment, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by inhibiting peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise increases carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant hurdle. Partial activity can be restored through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, controlling vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and maintaining catalysts in a reduced state, preventing non-selective oxygen species formation. Its oxygen specifically converts propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, tackling catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active lattice oxygen, limiting propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites, but drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate; N2O mitigates this effect. At 10% propane conversion, N2O achieved 80% propene selectivity, compared to 50% with O2, despite a lower turnover frequency. N2O also reduces the formation of non-lattice oxygen species from O2, which contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves high propene yields, rivaling top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, poses a significant challenge, with varying sensitivity in FeZSM-5's active sites. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation is critical for N2O-ODHP's practical application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency (Quote [1]), attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation on iron zeolites (Quote [2]) limits propylene yield. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, particularly through in situ FTIR spectroscopy (Quote [7]) for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits. The reusability of regenerated catalysts in successive reaction and regeneration cycles remains unexplored (Quote [10]), highlighting the need for detailed studies to address limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% propylene yield (Quote 4, 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Steam activation reduces deactivation, indicating the importance of minimizing Brnsted acid sites (Quote 20). Further investigation into the role of acidity and iron sources could enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas effectively. Replacing oxygen with N2O significantly increases propylene yield, particularly with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, often due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and optimized conditions to minimize coke formation, necessitating further research for viable N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, as evidenced by increased yields and selectivity to propylene (Quote 2). At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2 (Quote 5). However, pure N2O leads to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O inhibits non-selective sites (Quotes 3, 6, 7, 8), and the presence of both O2 and N2O modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity (Quote 19). Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhance propene selectivity. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration supports selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, requiring only 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen atoms favor waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species from N2O favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic species from O2 contribute to COx formation, impacting catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity due to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 significantly lowers C3H6 yields and decreases C3H6 selectivity, negatively impacting intermediates crucial for propene production. Strategies include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, enhancing yield with nickel molybdate catalysts at lower concentrations. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations modulates catalyst oxidation state, improving performance and addressing stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to dioxygen, which often leads to over-oxidation and lower olefin yields [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP [3]. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue [5], exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is unclear, lacking methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime [8]. Advanced research into deactivation mechanisms and developing stable catalysts is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation, as evidenced by its use in optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation through advanced research is essential for practical implementation, ensuring N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential hinders direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, optimizing surface oxygen density in VOx species for enhanced selectivity. This effect is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike with O2, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions at lower surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP by minimizing re-oxidation of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and up to three times greater selectivity than O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. Direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are significantly reduced with N2O, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is crucial to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity compared to O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is due to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies involve optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, reduces CO2 yield, and promotes molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, with catalyst deactivation and stability being critical issues. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and selectivity could make N2O-ODHP more viable. Research should focus on developing new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and facilitating molybdenum reduction underlines its advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which rapidly deactivates. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities, as it generates active iron species. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction as noted in [3] and [5], is a significant issue. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as in [8], partially restores activity, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, preventing vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced state for catalytic sites, as O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Concentration adjustments can optimize selectivity. Catalyst stability and deactivation pose challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, surpassing O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and preventing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, but N2O mitigates this effect. Studies suggest non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Research is aimed at identifying oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, and propene selectivity was 80% with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy was used to determine oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, matches V and Mo-based catalysts' propylene yields, thanks to N2O's monooxygen donation and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. Steam-activated Fe-zeolites excel, but deactivation, primarily by coke, limits propylene yield. Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying coke sensitivity. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is crucial to enhance catalyst stability and mitigate deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Detailed studies on N2O selective oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating advanced research for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields than traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5 (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge (Quote 6). Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and explore alternative iron sources for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP. The role of acidity in deactivation is a critical area requiring further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers an eco-friendly disposal method for this potent greenhouse gas (Quote 1). Replacing oxygen with N2O significantly increases propylene yield across various catalysts, notably iron and vanadium-based ones (Quote 2). However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge (Quote 4). Addressing this requires advanced research to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms (Quote 5), suggesting a focus on developing more stable catalysts and minimizing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, increasing yield while reducing propane and oxygen conversion. It achieves this by promoting a more reduced state in catalytic sites, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting the formation of non-selective oxygen species. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst oxidation and regeneration in the presence of N2O. These findings suggest that N2O's role is to inhibit non-selective sites, and the presence of both O2 and N2O is necessary for improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials enhance propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity by reducing active surface lattice oxygen, favoring propane oxidation to propene over COx. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen contributes to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, up to 25% at 723 K, due to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation limits propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with slower rates at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower propene (<5%) and decreases selectivity, increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, improving yield and reducing CO2. Adjusting N2O modulates catalyst oxidation state, boosting performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability issues limit practical use, highlighting the need for advanced research to address these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by mitigating over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote 3). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and the complex conversion of N2O in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. Research is needed to clarify deactivation mechanisms (Quote 7) and prevent coke deposition (Quote 8) to improve catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by lowering active site concentration, favoring propene over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support achieve high selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 due to its gentler oxidizing power, which limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in reduced catalytic activity as N2O less efficiently re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage is attributed to decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by reducing the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and up to three times greater propylene selectivity, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts [1,3,5]. This is attributed to N2O's lower ability to re-oxidize reduced VOx species, enhancing propene selectivity. N2O also curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, further improving initial propene selectivity [13]. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is imperative to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a more viable practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, promoting a higher degree of vanadium reduction, which is crucial for high propylene yield. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity compared to O2. N2O prevents the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze consecutive propene oxidation to COx, offering an advantage in selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced catalyst design and optimized reaction conditions to sustain high activity and selectivity. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing robust catalysts for N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, as evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion and lower CO2 yield (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxides are utilized, with N2O promoting Mo reduction for improved selectivity (Quote 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding N2O's role in selectivity modulation and catalyst reduction, as it inhibits non-selective sites and facilitates Mo reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by effectively reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per quotes [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction (quotes [3] and [5]), is a significant hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating (quote [8]) and oxygen reoxidation can restore activity. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    