Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction, as it works in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to improve catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across diverse catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with V2O5 nanocrystallites causing a drop in propene selectivity. Research suggests other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, necessitating further investigation. Studies on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show N2O yields higher propene selectivity at half the propane conversion rate compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species from N2O and O2, exploring their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields (24%) akin to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites, activated by steam, are pivotal, with N2O's monooxygen donation enhancing propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, necessitating regeneration. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter revealing active sites' varying sensitivity to coke. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is imperative to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in iron zeolites, a key advantage in ODHP. However, coke formation significantly deactivates these catalysts, diminishing propylene yield. In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy offer insights into deactivation mechanisms, crucial for improving catalyst stability and reversibility. Advanced research is needed to fully understand the deactivation process and enhance the reusability of regenerated catalysts, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly when activated by steam, are effective catalysts in this process. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a critical challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations and make N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity across various catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility compared to softer oxidants like CO2. Addressing this requires advanced research to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP a practical reality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. Its mechanism involves promoting a more reduced state of catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that can induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen, which is crucial for catalyst regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODHP are key to understanding its benefits and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Decreased active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen atoms promote CO and CO2 formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at high temperatures. This efficiency is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability in zeolites to coordinate reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. Oxygen (O2) as an oxidant yields much lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease propene selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting intermediates essential for propene production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore mechanisms of coke formation and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other reactions. Adding N2O as a gas dope modifies catalytic performance, reducing propane conversion, increasing propylene yield and selectivity, and decreasing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O could improve catalyst oxidation state and performance, addressing the need for advanced research to overcome limitations in catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which often results in CO and CO2 formation, reducing olefin yields. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is complex, lacking effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation is essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support enhance selectivity by avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for propane and propene activation, can be achieved by using N2O, controlling selective oxidation and combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's consecutive oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2 where V2O5 lacks selectivity. N2O's positive effect stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by minimizing the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with N2O's lower oxidizing ability affecting the reoxidation of reduced VOx species. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to precisely define the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O over reduced VOx species and to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants. This is achieved using catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixtures or palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides. N2O's addition notably increases propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical. Strategies could involve developing more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions. Quotes highlight that N2O's role is similar to -Sb2O4 in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, promoting molybdenum in a reduced state for better selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a major drawback. TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation, offering advantages over conventional gravimetric microbalances. Steam activation is critical for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Direct N2O decomposition activity is higher in FeZSM-5 than in Fe-silicalite. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can react with coke, leading to COx and partial catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and deactivation resistance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a key challenge. Partial regeneration is possible with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires O2. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, as it creates a more reduced state for catalytic sites. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a promising but challenging process for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene over-oxidation. Challenges include increased VOx site activity for propene oxidation with higher agglomerization degree, leading to decreased selectivity when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate. Research suggests that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Further investigation is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, as current knowledge is limited. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and explore their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propylene yields with Fe-zeolites, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites, specifically activated by steam, yield 24% propylene at elevated temperatures, facilitated by N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, significantly reduces propylene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke buildup, reducing propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking and deactivation. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and coke formation on the catalyst surface. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking. Advanced research is essential to address these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites yield up to 22% propylene, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as catalyst regeneration and optimizing reaction conditions, are needed. Further research should explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate regeneration steps for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding deactivation mechanisms to make N2O-ODHP a viable practical option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, increasing propylene yield while decreasing CO2. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, further promoting ODHP. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and its synergy with O2 for optimal catalyst oxidation state are crucial for improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, evidenced by its performance in other oxidation reactions. In the presence of nickel molybdate catalysts, N2O enhances propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance. However, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research to make N2O-ODHP a practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts, but deactivation remains a challenge, influenced by propane's reductive nature. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation is crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased overall activity but increased propene formation compared to O2. This occurs because N2O decomposition is less favorable, reducing active sites and enhancing selectivity. High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species on the support. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, especially for VOx species on MCM-41 catalysts. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O but are non-selective with O2. N2O's benefit stems from reducing surface oxygen density, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, offering up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in a higher reduction degree of VOx species, suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity compared to O2. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with N2O helping to mitigate these by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation, focusing on understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by studies showing increased selectivity and reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield. N2O facilitates molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. The role of -Sb2O4 in controlling selectivity and the potential for N2O to inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction, are key considerations for improving N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Remarkable yields of propionaldehyde (up to 6%) are obtained. The TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, offers advantages over conventional gravimetric microbalances. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used in propane ODHP, offers higher propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a key challenge. Partial activity restoration is possible through N2O regeneration at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing effective regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, leading to a more reduced state of catalytic sites. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a promising area for advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, as observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide (quotes [1], [2]). Kinetic analysis reveals slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (quote [3]). VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity (quote [6]). At low vanadium surface concentration, propene selectivities are similar with both oxidants, but at higher concentrations, N2O mitigates the drop in selectivity and direct propane oxidation better than O2 (quote [8]). A study suggests non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation more than N2O (quote [9]). Research is needed to understand oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O on VOx/MCM-41 (quote [11]). Experimentally, N2O showed half the propane conversion turnover frequency of O2 but doubled propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion (quote [14]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites, matching those of V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily by coke, is a significant issue, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests active sites with different coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen. This specificity contributes to iron zeolites' superior performance. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking but lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and detailed studies on catalyst reusability. Characterization methods like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption are essential for evaluating catalyst reversibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5, have shown exceptional performance, with iron impurities enhancing propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring alternative iron sources to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based materials like Fe-ZSM-5 and redox metals such as vanadium and molybdenum are effective. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, favoring selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is essential for regeneration. N2O's role includes inhibiting non-selective sites and modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity. The decrease in active surface lattice oxygen of VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's specificity as a monooxygen donor and iron's role in coordinating reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge, leading to decreased propene yields. Increasing temperature reduces deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, associated with higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant leads to significantly lower C3H6 yields compared to N2O. The addition of O2 to the C3H8+N2O mixture decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research directions should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms, identifying less susceptible catalysts, and developing cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, could improve catalyst stability and performance, addressing critical challenges in the N2O-ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote 3), with superior performance after calcination (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and lack of methods to prevent coke deposition (Quote 8) hinder catalyst longevity. Research should focus on deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support fully covered can achieve high propene selectivity by avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, which is involved in propane and propene activation, controls selective oxidation and combustion, achieved by using N2O over O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propene selectivity over O2 at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion, albeit with reduced catalytic activity. Propene selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface lattice oxygen density in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity, especially with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation. Strategies should focus on optimizing catalyst properties and understanding oxygen species' role in consecutive and direct oxidation pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for lower ODP activity but also for higher propene selectivity by suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of VOx species and their degree of polymerization influence the catalytic performance. The use of N2O reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which are formed from O2 and catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research to develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and to optimize reaction conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Strategies include understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide enhance this process, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for better selectivity. However, challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, alongside catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions for enhanced activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are remarkable. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation due to coke. TEOM, coupled with GC analysis, correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species, zeolite host, and acidity influence deactivation. Ex-FeZSM-5's resistance to deactivation is linked to its iron constitution and porous structure. Mesopores in ex-FeZSM-5 reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but may lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition resist coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise catalyzes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a key challenge. Partial regeneration is possible with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, working in a more reduced state. This limits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls catalyst oxidation, crucial for selectivity. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with increased agglomerization affecting propene selectivity. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, aiming to optimize catalysts for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propylene yields (24%) with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching V and Mo-based catalysts' performance (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003). Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation (Prez-Ramrez and Gallardo-Llamas, 2004). However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propylene yield, though regeneration in pure oxygen at 773 K can restore activity (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003). Deactivation rates vary: Fe-beta > Fe-silicalite > FeZSM-5, with FeZSM-5's behavior suggesting diverse iron site sensitivity to coke (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003). Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility (Moulijn et al., 2001).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as highlighted in Quote 1. However, Quote 2 reveals a significant challenge: iron zeolites' deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. Advanced research is needed, as indicated in Quote 6, to understand deactivation mechanisms and regeneration under reaction conditions. In situ FTIR spectroscopy, mentioned in Quote 7, is a promising tool for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in zeolite catalysts. The reusability of regenerated catalysts, as per Quote 10, remains underexplored, necessitating further investigation. These insights underscore the need for detailed studies to address catalyst limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites show superior propylene yields compared to other preparation methods. Iron impurities in steamed commercial H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and incorporate in situ regeneration techniques. Further exploration of iron sources, catalyst design, and integrated process designs could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts like Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O isn't suitable for ODHP as molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst regeneration, preventing rapid deactivation. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODHP are critical for improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, while more oxygen promotes waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen involved in COx formation. Direct evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. The catalyst's performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures slow deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts' performance is enhanced by N2O, increasing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving stability and addressing deactivation challenges. Further research is needed to optimize N2O concentration for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a major challenge. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is not fully understood, and strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime are lacking. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance propene selectivity, avoiding strong propene adsorption. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion, despite lowering catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's benefit stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, as demonstrated in studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. This results in a higher degree of catalyst reduction, enhancing propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O reducing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, critical for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a lower ODP activity than O2 but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. The critical challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, affecting practicality. Research directions should focus on improving catalyst stability and reducing deactivation, potentially through more stable catalysts or optimized reaction conditions. -Sb2O4 and N2O's synergistic effect on NiMoO4's selectivity is noted, with N2O inhibiting oxygen adsorption, promoting molybdenum reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, cause deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Remarkable propionaldehyde yields (up to 6%) are obtained. A TEOM coupled with GC analysis correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM's advantages include a well-defined flow pattern, fast response time, and high mass resolution. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to mesopores from dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, allowing catalytic sites to operate in a more reduced state. This limits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls the oxidation state of the catalyst. The oxygen from N2O dissociation specifically oxidizes propane to propene, offering selectivity advantages over other oxidants. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, presenting a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, but N2O mitigates this effect. A recent study suggests that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is limited. The VOx/MCM-41 catalyst, previously tested in ODHP, shows a turnover frequency of propane conversion of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, while N2O halves this frequency but doubles propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is used to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41 and assess their reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields (24%) with Fe-zeolites, matching top-performing V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter suggesting varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to mitigate deactivation and enhance catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in iron zeolites, boosting propylene selectivity. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propylene yield, posing a major challenge. Advanced research is essential to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst stability. In situ spectroscopic studies, as suggested, could provide insights into the deactivation of iron-containing zeolites in C3H8 + N2O reactions and their regeneration potential, addressing the limitations for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites yield up to 22% propylene, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits stability. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke, and explore alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity across catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based materials, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel in propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this through stable catalyst development, reaction condition optimization, and enhanced deactivation resistance could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. N2O's presence shifts catalytic sites to a more reduced state, promoting selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx formation. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields. Its effectiveness is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits performance. Higher temperatures reduce deactivation rates, and FeZSM-5 shows slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts' performance is enhanced by N2O, increasing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, addressing challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation. Further research is needed to optimize N2O concentration for improved catalytic performance and practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are key catalysts, with superior performance post-calcination. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a major hurdle. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is unclear, lacking effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst life. Advanced research on deactivation, catalyst stability, and reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity (Quote [1], [2]). High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species (Quote [3]). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, by using N2O over O2, controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote [4]).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propene selectivity across different VOx species. The positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. N2O's lower oxidizing ability leads to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The importance of direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx is significantly higher with O2 than with N2O, affecting catalytic performance. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies such as the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by its addition leading to a significant increase in propylene yield while reducing CO2 production (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation (Quotes 5, 6). Research directions should focus on developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions to mitigate deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The nature of these species, the zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation. FeZSM-5 and FeBEA outperform commercial zeolites in initial propene yield, despite similar residual activities. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are achieved. FeMFI zeolites face deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is vital for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposit formation [3] and [5], is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. The O2 from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species leads to lower active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops with vanadium agglomerization, but N2O mitigates total propane oxidation better than O2. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species that contribute to COx formation. Experimental evidence is needed on oxygen species from N2O and O2 reoxidation. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields (24%) with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation limits performance, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's varied deactivation suggests different iron site sensitivities. Catalyst deactivation, a complex issue, involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. Advanced in situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms, yet detailed studies on N2O-ODHP with iron zeolites are lacking. Reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored, highlighting the need for comprehensive research to address these limitations and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene selectivity and lower operation temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts under N2O, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits their stability. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced research is needed for practical implementation, focusing on catalyst design and process integration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, as noted in quote [2]. Iron-based catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5, and vanadium-based catalysts excel in this process, as per quote [3]. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, as mentioned in quote [4], limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this, as quote [5] suggests, requires improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms. Potential strategies include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, inhibiting non-selective propane activation, and limiting the formation of CO2. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in improving selectivity is attributed to its ability to inhibit non-selective sites and the synergistic effect with O2, maintaining the catalyst's optimal oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, as it's less favorable than O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen favor waste product formation. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. The catalyst's performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures slow down deactivation, with 773 K showing relatively slow deactivation due to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant results in significantly lower propene yields compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective, pure N2O source for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts, when used with N2O, exhibit improved propylene yield and selectivity at low N2O concentrations, with reduced oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, high N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing catalytic performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicates N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, and coke deposition limits catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity by avoiding strong propene adsorption. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, leading to lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity. N2O's positive effect stems from reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles and highly dispersed surface VOx species show no significant propene selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by minimizing the re-oxidation of VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity compared to O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O reducing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity than O2. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that N2O reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The critical challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly related to the degree of reduction and the nature of oxygen species. Advanced research is needed to develop strategies that can address these limitations, such as optimizing catalyst structure and composition to enhance stability and selectivity, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. [1] [3] [5] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] [41] [42] [43] [44] [45] [46] [47] [48] [49] [50] [51] [52] [53] [54] [55] [56] [57] [58] [59] [60] [61] [62] [63] [64] [65] [66] [67] [68] [69] [70] [71] [72] [73] [74] [75] [76] [77] [78] [79] [80] [81] [82] [83] [84] [85] [86] [87] [88] [89] [90] [91] [92] [93] [94] [95] [96] [97] [98] [99] [100] [101] [102] [103] [104] [105] [106] [107] [108] [109] [110] [111] [112] [113] [114] [115] [116] [117] [118] [119] [120] [121] [122] [123] [124] [125] [126] [127] [128] [129] [130] [131] [132] [133] [134] [135] [136] [137] [138] [139] [140] [141] [142] [143] [144] [145] [146] [147] [148] [149] [150] [151] [152] [153] [154] [155] [156] [157] [158] [159] [160] [161] [162] [163] [164]", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, as evidenced by a decrease in propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide, are pivotal. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, akin to -Sb2O4, suggests a synergistic effect in mixed catalysts. Understanding and leveraging these mechanisms could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are remarkable. A TEOM coupled with GC analysis correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities, with extraframework iron species responsible for propane oxydehydrogenation. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. This slower reoxidation process enhances propene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Catalyst regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as shown in studies (1-3). Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation more than N2O (9). Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O (10). The study aims to identify oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 (11-12). Propane conversion turnover frequency was 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, half with N2O, but propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50% (13-14). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identified oxygen species' reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO (15).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation mechanisms involve active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as seen in iron zeolites' superior ODHP performance [1]. However, coke formation significantly deactivates these catalysts, reducing propylene yield [2]. Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor coke deposition and surface changes, but they lack insights into deactivation mechanisms [3-7]. Research is needed to understand iron zeolites' deactivation in C3H8 + N2O reactions and catalyst regeneration [6, 9]. In situ studies could clarify the ODHP reaction under process conditions, while the reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored [8, 10]. Complementary analyses using XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption can assess catalyst reversibility [11-12].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable performance in N2O-ODHP, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke, and exploring alternative iron sources. Steam activation has been shown to reduce deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Further studies are needed to understand the role of acidity and improve catalyst resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts excel in C3H6 yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalyst formulations, optimized reaction conditions, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. However, pure N2O isn't suitable for ODHP due to catalyst deactivation; molecular oxygen is crucial for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This separation favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with well-dispersed VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, as it reduces the steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen, favoring propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. The oxidizing agent's effect on catalytic performance relates to the nature of oxygen species, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, deteriorating performance. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than O2, evidenced by increased propylene yield and selectivity at low N2O concentrations. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance and addressing challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability. Advanced research is needed to optimize N2O concentration for enhanced propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote 3). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and the complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) limit catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation are needed for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface improve selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, crucial for high-performance ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propene selectivity across different VOx species. The positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced vanadium oxide (VOx) species. This results in a higher catalyst reduction degree, improving propylene selectivity up to three times, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences catalyst selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODHP reaction over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Potential solutions include developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Further research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that can maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by its promotion of molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4 catalysts, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, alongside catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests potential synergies in mixed catalysts. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 shows resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. A major issue is deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. This slower reoxidation enhances propene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a major hurdle. Partial regeneration is possible under N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works by limiting non-selective oxygen species formation and controlling the oxidation state of the catalyst. The oxygen from N2O dissociation specifically oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across diverse catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propylene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx sites' increased activity for propylene oxidation with agglomeration, leading to lower selectivity and propane's total oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Research suggests N2O forms fewer non-lattice oxygen species from gas-phase O2, contributing to COx formation. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation of VOx. Studies aim to identify these species using EPR spectroscopy, focusing on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propylene selectivity compared to O2 at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving high initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke is a significant issue, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta being the most susceptible. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests sites with differing sensitivity to coke. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, reducing propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC, effectively monitors coking but lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time coke monitoring and surface acidity changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps exist in selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability, highlighting the need for detailed in situ studies and regeneration analysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing iron incorporation methods and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and understand the role of acidity in ODHP, as a high number of protonic acid sites can accelerate deactivation. Steam activation reduces Brnsted sites, slowing deactivation. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Further investigation into alternative iron sources, catalyst design, and integrated process designs that include regeneration steps could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by its effectiveness with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts yield high propylene, but rapid deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms are critical for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing the catalyst's state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At >300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in improving selectivity is attributed to its ability to inhibit non-selective sites and the synergistic effect with O2, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene yield. Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O compared to O2 boosts propene selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving their performance and addressing challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue ([5]), exacerbated by propane's reductant role and the complex N2O conversion ([6]). The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is unclear ([7]), lacking effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime ([8]). Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene formation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high propene selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, which participates in propane and propene activation, is key to controlling selective oxidation and combustion. Using N2O over O2 facilitates this optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion levels. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity. Propene selectivity is unaffected by VOx species dispersion with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated in studies using VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. Propene selectivity can triple with N2O, particularly for catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species, due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is evidenced by improved initial propene selectivity and reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, indicating that catalyst properties beyond reduction degree play a role. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, critical for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species being nonselective for the ODHP reaction. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that N2O can lead to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is essential for suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. The importance of direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx is significantly higher in the presence of O2 than in N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, with strategies focusing on the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed. N2O's addition significantly increases propylene selectivity while decreasing propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. However, decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield pose practical application challenges. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as using more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions, could make N2O-ODHP more feasible. For instance, N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites suggests potential for advanced catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during gas-solid reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is vital for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, despite lower propane conversion, due to its ability to reoxidize vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a major challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, likely due to its ability to maintain catalytic sites in a reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a promising area for advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, but N2O mitigates this effect. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O is limited. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed higher propene selectivity (80%) with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy was used to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, with Fe-zeolites achieving high initial propene yields (24%) akin to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation are pivotal. However, coke formation significantly deactivates catalysts, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP (Quote [1]). However, coke deactivation (Quote [2]) significantly reduces propylene yield, necessitating in situ spectroscopic studies (Quote [6]) to understand deactivation and regeneration. In situ FTIR spectroscopy (Quote [7]) can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for ODHP understanding. Research gaps exist in selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites (Quote [9]) and catalyst reusability, requiring detailed investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites yield up to 22% propylene, outperforming other catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on iron sources, catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrated process designs could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as per quote 2, across catalysts like iron zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Quote 3 highlights Fe-ZSM-5's high C3H6 yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke, as in quote 4, limits N2O's feasibility. Quote 5 underscores the need for stability improvements and deactivation mechanism understanding. Research should focus on stable catalysts, minimizing coke, and deactivation resistance to make N2O-ODHP viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, inhibiting non-selective propane activation, and limiting the formation of non-selective oxygen species. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species, aiding ODHP. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating O2 for catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on optimizing N2O and O2 ratios to maintain catalyst stability and enhance propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity. The catalyst's reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2, benefiting propene production. Active sites with one to two lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, optimizing N2O-ODHP for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O as a gas dope to nickel molybdate catalysts modifies catalytic performance, increasing propylene yield and selectivity while decreasing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low N2O concentrations. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2 ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation ([5]) and the complex conversion of N2O on iron-zeolites ([6]) pose challenges. The deactivation mechanism ([7]) and coke deposition ([8]) need further research to enhance catalyst stability and lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor selective propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering distinct advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propene selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed. N2O significantly enhances propylene selectivity, reduces CO2 yield, and promotes molybdenum reduction, improving catalyst selectivity (Quote 2, 3, 7). However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding how N2O inhibits non-selective sites and oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 (Quote 10), potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O, suggesting potential strategies for overcoming limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise catalyzes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, as evidenced by its role in keeping catalytic sites in a reduced state and limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation specifically oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration is a promising strategy to fine-tune selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species, reducing active lattice oxygen and minimizing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage, with isolated VOx sites. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, selectivity drops, but N2O mitigates this effect. A study showed that N2O reduces the formation of non-lattice oxygen species from O2, which contribute to COx formation. With N2O, propane conversion's turnover frequency was half that of O2, yet propene selectivity was significantly higher (80% vs. 50% at 10% propane conversion).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation limits performance, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Active iron sites in FeZSM-5 exhibit varying sensitivity to coke, complicating deactivation. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and mitigate deactivation are critical for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation on iron zeolites leads to rapid deactivation and decreased propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy are essential for studying deactivation mechanisms, though TEOM lacks surface-level insights. In situ studies under reaction conditions are needed to understand deactivation and regeneration, especially for iron-containing zeolites in C3H8 + N2O reactions. Reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored, highlighting the need for detailed research to address limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields, with up to 22% yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate process designs for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating catalyst oxidation state during ODHP are key to improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen favor waste product formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic species participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, and its addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates crucial for propene production, deteriorating FeZSM-5 performance. Strategies include optimizing temperature to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts are used, with N2O addition enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while reducing propane conversion, oxygen consumption, and CO2 yield. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance, addressing challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which often leads to over-oxidation and lower olefin yields. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is not fully understood, lacking effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation is essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, and optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering higher propene selectivity than O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx species and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike with O2. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor selective propene formation over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by reducing the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times greater propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these issues involve optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed. N2O's addition enhances propylene selectivity, reduces CO2 yield, and promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. However, it decreases propane conversion and CO2 yield, posing practical implementation challenges. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability, such as using more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions, could make N2O-ODHP more viable. Research should focus on developing new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, reveals insights into deactivation mechanisms. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits ([3], [5]), is a hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity ([8]), but full recovery needs oxygen. Research should aim for more stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, as it creates a more reduced state for catalytic sites. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, but N2O mitigates this effect. A study suggests that non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence aims to identify oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, and propene selectivity was 80% with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy was used to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites, especially when steam-activated, effectively coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation, thanks to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying sensitivity to coke. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and mitigate deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis reveals deactivation and coking correlations, yet lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Detailed in situ studies on N2O selective oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating advanced research for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5, show remarkable propylene yields at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and explore alternative iron sources for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, suggesting strategies like developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts with enhanced resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity is improved on V/g-Al2O3 materials with well-dispersed VOx species, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability further enhances propene selectivity. This effect is due to N2O's less favorable reoxidation of the catalyst compared to O2, decreasing active surface lattice oxygen and favoring propane oxidation to propene over COx. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. The oxidizing agent's impact on catalytic performance relates to the nature of oxygen species, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O as a gas dope to nickel molybdate catalysts modifies performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low N2O concentrations. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. However, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote 3). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and the complex conversion of N2O in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms (Quote 7), prevent coke deposition (Quote 8), and enhance catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased overall activity but increased propene formation compared to O2. This occurs because N2O decomposition is less favorable, reducing active site concentration and enhancing selectivity. High propene selectivity is attainable with fully covered vanadia species on the support, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achievable with N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by limiting the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times greater propylene selectivity, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies such as advanced catalyst design and optimization of reaction conditions to maintain high activity and selectivity. Research directions should focus on understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that can withstand the conditions of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxides are used. N2O promotes Mo reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research directions should focus on stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding N2O's role in selectivity modulation and catalyst reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 shows resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing the importance of iron species and zeolite structure. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per quotes [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction (quotes [3] and [5]), is a significant challenge. Partial regeneration via N2O heating (quote [8]) and oxygen reoxidation can restore activity. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    