Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption, promoting catalyst reduction, and dissociating to supply O for propane oxidation to propene, as per quotes [1]-[4]. Adjusting N2O concentration, as suggested in quote [5], can modulate selectivity, aiding practical implementation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for feasible solutions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and minimizing propene oxidation to COx. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, and propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, with a less severe effect when using N2O. Unlike N2O, other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. N2O halves propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves high initial propene yields of 24%, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Active iron sites in FeZSM-5 vary in coke sensitivity, indicating complex deactivation mechanisms involving reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's unique role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation, affecting propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are vital for studying coke formation and catalyst deactivation, highlighting the need for detailed investigations under reaction conditions (Quote [6]). Notably, in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites are lacking (Quote [9]), and the reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored (Quote [10]). Advanced research is crucial to address these limitations and improve catalyst stability, essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and improved propylene selectivity, with iron zeolites, especially when steam-activated, enhancing propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, but steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites. Further research on acidity's role and catalyst regeneration could make N2O-ODHP more practical, as evidenced by the improved performance of steam-activated iron zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts, leveraging its greenhouse gas properties (Quotes 2,3). However, rapid deactivation, primarily by coke formation (Quote 4), limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is vital to enhance catalyst stability and clarify deactivation mechanisms (Quote 5), crucial for N2O's feasible implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, inhibiting non-selective sites and providing oxygen species at concentrations above 300 ppm, which induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O isn't viable as O2 is essential for catalyst regeneration, preventing rapid deactivation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimally modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, improving selectivity. Further research is needed to refine N2O usage and tackle catalyst deactivation for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, tunable with N2O. N2O's reduced reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration favors propene over COx, needing only 1-2 oxygen atoms, while excess oxygen favors waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming to enhance practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, especially at low concentrations, improving yield and selectivity in nickel molybdate catalysts while reducing CO2. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity and increase carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations boosts catalyst stability and performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, unlike dioxygen which causes over-oxidation (Quote [2]). Fe-ZSM-5 iron-zeolites (Quote [3]) are effective N2O-ODHP catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation (Quote [5]) is a key issue, requiring research for stable catalysts and conditions to minimize coke formation (Quote [8]) and extend catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and favoring propene over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which curbs direct propane and propylene oxidation to COx. This results in lower activity but consistent propylene selectivity across VOx species, attributed to reduced surface density of active oxygen, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2. This is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction, particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability necessitate advanced research for practical implementation. Studies over VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 materials confirm that replacing O2 with N2O increases propene selectivity, with the most significant improvements for bulk-like V2O5 species, due to N2O's lower ability to re-oxidize reduced VOx species. The complex reaction scheme suggests that direct propane oxidation to COx is more significant with O2 than N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts due to a higher reduction degree of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene yields. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze propene oxidation to COx, leading to higher selectivity. However, N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are significant challenges, requiring strategies like optimizing catalyst structure and developing regeneration methods. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production, according to studies with NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O catalysts. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research suggests N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity and inhibit non-selective sites, indicating potential for practical implementation with stable catalyst development and optimized reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing remarkable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, influence deactivation behavior. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance is linked to its iron constitution and porous structure, with mesopores reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium less aggressively than O2, avoiding peroxovanadate formation as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits as noted in [3] and [5], hinders practical application. Strategies include partial regeneration by heating under N2O and full restoration with O2 reoxidation, as in [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, preventing vanadium reduction, and refining regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, keeping sites in a reduced state. Its oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Concentration adjustments can optimize selectivity. Challenges involve catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active oxygen sites, minimizing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity is high for isolated VOx sites but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites. N2O more effectively mitigates total propane oxidation than O2. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, as preliminary studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation. EPR spectroscopy can identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, aiding catalyst improvement for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves 24% initial propene yield, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, reduces propene yield. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex issue, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility, impacting practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, as noted in quote 1. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke, as mentioned in quote 2, limits practical implementation. Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy, summarized from quotes 3-5 and 6-9, offer insights into deactivation mechanisms. Yet, detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability, highlighted in quotes 10-12, are lacking, emphasizing the need for further research to address these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene at lower temperatures, notably with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 achieving up to 22% yield. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation is a major hurdle. Steam-activated zeolites show slower deactivation, indicating the need for further research on acidity's role and strategies to enhance catalyst stability. Advanced studies are essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, as per quote [2]. Iron-based and vanadium catalysts show significant yield improvements. However, catalyst deactivation, often due to coke formation (quote [4]), hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is needed to enhance stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, as stated in quote [5].", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state (Quote 3), inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 7), and potentially limiting oxygen adsorption (Quote 4). Its presence modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, improving selectivity (Quote 2). However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration (Quote 17). Molecular oxygen is necessary alongside N2O to maintain catalyst activity and prevent rapid deactivation (Quote 19). Research should focus on optimizing catalyst stability under N2O and O2 to advance practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials enhance selectivity, tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K, outperforming O2, which yields <5% propene. N2O's superiority is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in FeZSM-5 that coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation is a significant challenge. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate deactivation rates. O2 addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less deactivating active sites, and creating cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over O2, peaking at low concentrations; higher levels decrease selectivity and favor carbonaceous products. Concentration adjustments modulate catalyst oxidation state, improving performance. Catalyst deactivation and stability challenges necessitate advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation, unlike dioxygen ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for this process ([3], [4]). However, catalyst deactivation ([5]) and the complex conversion of N2O in the presence of propane ([6]) are significant hurdles. Research is crucial to understand deactivation mechanisms ([7]), develop more stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP a more practical industrial solution ([8]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation, as seen in Quotes 1 and 2. Well-dispersed vanadia species, as mentioned in Quote 3, enhance selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O, per Quote 4, controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity over O2 by inhibiting direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion. This is due to N2O's weaker oxidizing potential, which reduces surface oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions at lower surface densities. The effect is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles, highlighting N2O's role in improving selectivity and suggesting avenues for research to address catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, due to its reduced re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O's lower propensity for direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx results in improved initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O decreasing CO2 selectivity and CO formation, indicating reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive C3H6 oxidation. The catalytic performance is oxidant-dependent, with N2O offering a more selective pathway for propene production. Challenges in maintaining catalyst stability and preventing deactivation remain, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation. [1] [3] [5] [7] [13]", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, especially on alumina and silica supports, by achieving a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is critical for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, preventing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. The degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges that can be mitigated by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. Advanced research is needed to define the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O over reduced VOx species and to understand their role in the selectivity of the ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased selectivity and reduced CO2 yield and propane conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide, are used, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction and selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding N2O's role in inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance and FeBEA deactivating rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity with deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve practical implementation of N2O-ODHP, focusing on strategies to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant issue. Partial regeneration via N2O heating can restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, preventing vanadium reduction, and enhancing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. Its dissociation yields O, facilitating propane's conversion to propene. Adjusting N2O and promoter concentrations optimizes selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability, crucial for practical application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as seen in n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide (quotes [1], [2]). The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (quote [3]). VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, and selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O (quotes [6], [8]). Other oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O (quote [9]). Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP showcases Fe-zeolites achieving competitive 24% initial propene yields, akin to top V and Mo-based catalysts. N2O's effectiveness as a monooxygen donor and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species are key. However, coke-induced deactivation impacts propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating most rapidly. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quote [6]). Despite detailed insights into coke formation, in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites are lacking (Quote [9]), as is detailed research on catalyst reusability (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP, particularly with iron zeolites like steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields (quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (quote 6). Further research on the role of acidity in ODHP and strategies to enhance catalyst stability could address these limitations, making N2O-ODHP more practical for implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Replacing O2 with N2O enhances propylene yield, notably with iron zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 production, but catalysts face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, hindering N2O's practicality. Advanced research on stable catalysts and deactivation mechanisms is vital for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation by promoting a more selective catalyst state, as evidenced by its ability to decrease non-selective sites and increase propylene yield at concentrations above 300 ppm. However, pure N2O leads to catalyst deactivation, highlighting the necessity of O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites, in synergy with O2, enhances selectivity by modulating the catalyst's oxidation state, suggesting promising research directions to overcome practical implementation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing reduction, and isolating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity gains are observed with VOx species fully covering supports and N2O's use as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene up to 25%, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. Rapid deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, mitigated by higher temperatures like 773 K, which slow deactivation and enhance N2O conversion. O2 significantly reduces C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts. A pure N2O source from NH3 oxidation could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing yield and selectivity at low concentrations, and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2. At higher concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability challenges require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by mitigating over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts, with calcination boosting performance (Quotes 3 and 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant hurdles. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) remain unresolved, necessitating research to understand deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions for enhanced catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by unfavorably decomposing compared to O2, reducing active sites and enhancing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support improve selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, essential for high-performance ODHP. Advanced research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2, where selectivity is compromised. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene formation over combustion, highlighting N2O's role in improving selectivity and the need for advanced research to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, attributed to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This improvement is particularly significant with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O's ability to reduce direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx results in improved initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a critical role in determining selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is essential for the practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts due to a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is essential for achieving high propylene yield. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective. Catalyst deactivation and stability are significant challenges, requiring strategies to maintain high vanadium reduction and prevent the formation of nonselective oxygen species. Research should concentrate on elucidating oxygen species mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled density of active oxygen species for optimized conditions. [Quote 1] demonstrates the increase in propene selectivity with N2O over vanadia catalysts. [Quote 3] explains the lower ODP activity with N2O due to its reduced ability to reoxidize VOx species. [Quote 5] highlights that N2O does not produce nonselective oxygen species, unlike O2, which catalyzes nonselective propene oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is vital. Research should focus on developing stable, high-activity catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and using N2O to inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction. -Sb2O4 plays a role in controlling selectivity, similar to N2O, by facilitating MoO3 oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM, offering real-time mass change measurements, has advantages over conventional methods. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction as noted in [3] and [5], is a significant hurdle. Partial activity restoration through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as observed in [8], suggests promising strategies. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state to limit non-selective oxygen species formation. Its dissociated oxygen specifically oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration offers a strategy to optimize selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, as observed in n-butane dehydrogenation. Kinetic analysis reveals slower VOx reoxidation with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research suggests alternative oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, highlighting the need for studies on oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41. Prior work on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP shows a turnover frequency of propane conversion with O2, but N2O halves this while doubling propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion, as evidenced by studies on various catalysts and kinetic analysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs, akin to V and Mo-based catalysts, due to Fe-zeolites' reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, hampers propene production. FeZSM-5's deactivation pattern hints at varying iron site sensitivity. Advanced research is imperative to tackle these limitations for practical application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances iron zeolites' efficiency in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition significantly impacts propylene yield. Monitoring techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy are crucial for real-time analysis of coking and surface changes in zeolite catalysts. Detailed in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability remain unexplored areas requiring advanced research. [1] Iron zeolites' remarkable performance in ODHP is attributed to N2O's specificity and the coordination of reactive oxygen species. [2] Deactivation by coke is a major drawback, leading to decreased propylene yield. [6] Complementary spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions are needed to understand deactivation and regeneration. [9] In situ investigations of selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites have not been reported, highlighting a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene production at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as evidenced by recent studies (Quote 4). Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield (Quote 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, impacting stability and lifetime (Quote 6). Further research is required to enhance catalyst stability, explore alternative iron sources, and develop integrated process designs for practical implementation, addressing the limitations of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Iron and vanadium catalysts enhance yield, but deactivation, mainly due to coke, limits N2O's practicality. Research on coke-resistant catalysts and deactivation mechanisms is vital for N2O-ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by fostering a more selective catalyst state, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O provides less oxidizing oxygen species, contributing to ODHP. However, pure N2O causes catalyst deactivation due to the lack of regeneration, highlighting the necessity of molecular oxygen for effective operation. N2O's inhibition of non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity are pivotal findings. Advanced research is imperative to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Full coverage of the support with well-dispersed VOx species enhances propylene selectivity, while N2O's lower reactivity for reoxidation compared to O2 improves propene selectivity, as selective propane oxidation to propene requires only one to two lattice oxygen atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 catalysts excels, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency stems from its monooxygen donor role and iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yields. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate deactivation by enhancing N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant drastically lowers C3H6 yields compared to N2O, with added O2 decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing selective catalyst systems for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective and pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms molecular oxygen in ODHP, enhancing propylene selectivity and yield at low concentrations, reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, improves catalyst performance by modulating the oxidation state. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity. Advanced research is crucial to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over dioxygen, reducing over-oxidation to CO and CO2 [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts [3]. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant obstacle [5], exacerbated by propane complicating N2O conversion [6]. The deactivation mechanism is unclear [7], lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst life [8]. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, improving catalyst stability, and optimizing conditions for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and increasing propene yield, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, and optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, boosts propylene selectivity over O2 by inhibiting direct propane and propylene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential decreases surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propylene formation at lower densities. Despite lower catalytic activity due to reduced VOx re-oxidation, N2O's selectivity benefits propylene production, making it a promising option for practical implementation with further research addressing catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times that of O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and improved propylene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a critical role, with N2O effectively minimizing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation remains a challenge, necessitating advanced research to make N2O-ODHP a more viable option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propylene selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability are crucial. N2O's role in controlling selectivity, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests optimization potential. Under N2O, molybdenum in NiMoO4 works in a more reduced state, facilitating a more selective catalyst state. Research directions should focus on developing stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions to overcome limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing remarkable resistance unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking by coke and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by effectively reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, is a significant issue. Partial regeneration is possible by heating under N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires oxygen. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and creating efficient regeneration methods to overcome these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen converts propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen formation. Adjusting promoter concentration is a strategy to address catalyst deactivation and stability, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP compared to O2, observed across iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Similar effects are noted in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene to COx conversion. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization; selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, more so with O2 than N2O. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, as non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and explore their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves high propene yields, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, with steam-activated Fe-zeolites yielding 24% propene. N2O acts as a monooxygen donor, enhancing propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke deposition is a significant issue, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest among Fe-zeolites. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity [Quote 1]. However, catalyst deactivation by coke [Quote 2] limits propylene yield. In situ spectroscopic studies, particularly FTIR, are required to understand coke formation and surface changes in real-time during hydrocarbon conversion [Quotes 7, 8]. Detailed investigations of N2O over iron zeolites [Quote 9] and catalyst reusability post-regeneration [Quote 10] are unexplored areas needing attention.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to O2, with iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed on iron sources, catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrated process designs for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, effectively utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Replacing O2 with N2O enhances propylene yield, especially with iron-based and redox metal catalysts. However, rapid deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, crucial for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 selectivity at concentrations above 300 ppm. However, pure N2O isn't suitable due to rapid catalyst deactivation in the absence of O2, which is crucial for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes the catalyst's oxidation state, improving selectivity. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts for efficient ODHP in the presence of N2O and O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 enhances selectivity, while N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene yield compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, and atomic oxygen species from N2O support selective oxidation, unlike polyatomic species which contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, up to 25% at 723 K, due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less deactivating active sites, and developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, especially with nickel molybdate catalysts, but faces challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity vs. dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5 (Quote [3]), are pivotal catalysts. Catalyst deactivation (Quote [5]) and coke deposition (Quote [8]) are critical hurdles. Advanced research is imperative to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Its decomposition is less favorable than O2, leading to increased propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity further. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion. However, N2O's lower re-oxidation ability decreases catalytic activity. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and re-oxidation efficiency for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, as higher propene selectivity is achieved with N2O compared to O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by up to 3x compared to O2, notably with bulk-like V2O5 species, due to its reduced re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in decreased direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from N2O and O2 influences selectivity and activity, with N2O decreasing CO2 selectivity and CO formation, indicating a reduced tendency towards direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation through advanced research is crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the higher reduction degree of VOx species, which suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization affects consecutive propene oxidation. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are more significant with O2 than N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, necessitating strategies to maintain high activity and selectivity. Advanced research is required to understand oxygen species formation and develop catalysts for sustained high performance under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, and promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Advanced research could optimize catalysts and reaction conditions. For instance, N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity and inhibit non-selective sites, suggesting strategies to improve stability and reduce deactivation could make N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species and zeolite structure influence deactivation, with FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport, thus slowing deactivation. Direct N2O decomposition activity in FeZSM-5 suggests increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species in N2O activation and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by inhibiting peroxovanadate formation, reducing carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle, with carbon deposits having a minor impact. Partial activity can be restored by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, requiring oxygen for full recovery. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and enhancing regeneration techniques for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption, promoting a reduced catalyst state, and selectively oxidizing propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration offers a strategy to optimize selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various vanadium-based catalysts, outperforming O2 (Quote 1). This effect is also observed in n-butane dehydrogenation (Quote 2). Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (Quote 3). VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomeration. Propene selectivity remains high until V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, causing a drop in selectivity and direct propane oxidation, less pronounced with N2O (Quotes 6-8). Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O (Quote 9). A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 with both oxidants, using EPR spectroscopy to assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO (Quotes 11-15).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves high propene yields (24%) similar to V and Mo-based catalysts. N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation are key advantages. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly by coke, is a significant challenge, with Fe-beta showing the fastest deactivation rate. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to its role as a mono-oxygen donor, enhancing propane dehydrogenation through iron species coordination (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced research is needed to address this, including in situ FTIR spectroscopy for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quotes 7, 8). Research gaps include in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and the reusability of regenerated catalysts, necessitating detailed studies under reaction conditions and across cycles (Quotes 9, 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve a 22% propylene yield, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with steam-activated zeolites showing slower deactivation rates. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more practical petrochemical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP repurposes a potent greenhouse gas, boosting propylene selectivity over oxygen, notably with iron-zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 leads in propylene yield, but rapid deactivation, chiefly from coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is vital for stable catalysts and conditions to minimize coke, enhancing N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by maintaining catalytic sites in a reduced state, favoring propylene over CO2. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species participate in the reaction, promoting selectivity. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is crucial alongside N2O for improved selectivity in ODHP, as it modulates the catalyst's oxidation state during the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials enhance selectivity, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene yield compared to O2. Active sites with one to two lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation is essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a monooxygen donor in ODHP over FeZSM-5 enhances propylene yields, outperforming O2, which yields lower selectivity and increases COx. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, mitigated by higher temperatures. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and yield, notably with nickel molybdate catalysts, minimizing oxygen use and CO2 emissions. Yet, high N2O levels can reduce selectivity and form carbonaceous byproducts. Optimizing promoter concentrations can boost catalyst performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues requires advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for this process (Quote 3). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and the intricate conversion of N2O in the presence of propane (Quote 6) pose significant challenges. Understanding the deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and preventing coke deposition (Quote 8) are crucial for enhancing catalyst stability. Research should concentrate on these areas to improve the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation, as seen by the decrease in overall activity but increase in selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O, as opposed to O2, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, despite lower catalytic activity. This selectivity is consistent across VOx species with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O's lower tendency for direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation improves initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O is critical, with N2O favoring propene over COx formation. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, as it promotes a higher degree of reduction in VOx species, crucial for high propylene yields. This is evidenced by studies showing increased selectivity when O2 is replaced with N2O. However, N2O's lower reoxidation ability leads to reduced ODP activity compared to O2, as observed in VOx/MCM-41 and VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts. This limitation is offset by N2O's ability to prevent the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can cause catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these challenges include optimizing catalyst structure for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, aiming to develop catalysts that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased selectivity and reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4, -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Advanced research could address these limitations by improving catalyst stability and reducing deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites suggests avenues for advanced catalyst design, as indicated by its effect on NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixtures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving significant initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its more open structure with mesopores from dealumination, which reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by inhibiting peroxovanadate formation, reducing carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and creating efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, allowing catalytic sites to operate in a more reduced state. Oxygen from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, a strategy to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, as demonstrated across catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species leads to fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. This effect is less pronounced with N2O when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, causing a drop in propene selectivity. Studies on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show a turnover frequency of propane conversion with O2 that is twice as high as with N2O, yet propene selectivity is higher with N2O (80% vs. 50% at 10% propane conversion).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves 24% initial propene yield, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is due to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying iron site sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation hinders propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is recommended for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, complementing TEOM-GC analysis to better understand deactivation mechanisms (Quote [7]). Further research is needed on selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability, including performance recovery on successive reaction and regeneration cycles (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields than traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving significant propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. Iron impurities in steamed commercial H-ZSM-5 zeolites have been found to induce high propylene selectivity, minimizing COx formation. Further research is required to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield, particularly with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Research is crucial for improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, aiming to develop more stable catalysts and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and decreasing CO2 selectivity, as per quote [2]. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP, as mentioned in quote [5]. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration, as highlighted in quotes [16] and [17]. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation, as stated in quote [18]. Optimal selectivity in ODHP is achieved with a combination of O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state, as explained in quote [19]. Research should focus on developing catalysts that maintain stability and selectivity in N2O-rich environments, addressing the limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be adjusted using N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, requiring fewer lattice oxygen species for propane oxidation compared to COx formation. Active sites with excess lattice oxygen favor waste product formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 achieves high propene yields due to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation limits performance. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing improved stability at 773 K. O2 significantly reduces C3H6 yields and selectivity compared to N2O, increasing COx formation. Strategies include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective, pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, boosting yield and reducing CO2. Optimal N2O concentration is key, as excess can lower selectivity and increase byproducts. Adjusting N2O modulates catalyst oxidation state, improving performance. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, requiring advanced research for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by mitigating over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts with improved performance post-calcination (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and the intricate conversion of N2O in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) require further investigation. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing robust catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation and extend catalyst life, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for achieving high selectivity. Using N2O instead of O2 effectively controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges, essential for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, outperforming O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, slightly reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show consistent propylene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage stems from lowering surface lattice oxygen density in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show that N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion to COx and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O reducing direct and consecutive oxidation pathways, thus enhancing propene selectivity. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation. The oxidizing agent tunes the catalytic performance of vanadium oxides, with N2O's role in improving selectivity being a key factor.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts compared to O2, due to its ability to reduce VOx species, which is critical for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species leads to a higher degree of reduction, suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing that the specific surface area decreases with vanadium loading and the degree of polymerization of VOx species is influenced by the support material. Catalyst deactivation and stability are significant challenges, with strategies focusing on optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity. N2O can mitigate these issues by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that contribute to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production (quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity (quote 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity, as suggested by quote 8.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, measures mass changes during gas-solid reactions, correlating activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolite catalysts in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, reducing carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Catalyst regeneration through N2O heating and oxygen reoxidation offers promising strategies. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and enhancing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. This limits non-selective oxygen species and regulates catalyst oxidation. N2O-derived oxygen specifically oxidizes propane to propene, offering selectivity benefits. Adjusting promoter concentrations can optimize selectivity, a key strategy for catalytic reaction enhancement. Research should focus on catalyst stability and deactivation to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, as well as in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide catalysts. Kinetic analysis reveals slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to reduced active lattice oxygen and suppressed propene oxidation to COx. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Research suggests that other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Propane conversion turnover frequency is higher with O2, but propene selectivity is superior with N2O, at 80% versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves 24% initial propene yield, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation limits performance, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues contribute to deactivation. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and overcome deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation from coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced research, including in situ FTIR spectroscopy for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in zeolite catalysts (Quote 7), is crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms and catalyst regeneration under reaction conditions (Quote 6). The reusability of regenerated catalysts requires detailed investigation (Quote 10). TEOM and spectroscopic studies provide insights into deactivation and regeneration, complementing infrared results (Quotes 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12), highlighting the need for further in situ studies to fully comprehend the ODHP process with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as reported by independent research groups. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge, as observed in iron zeolites during ODHP with N2O. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and integrated process designs that incorporate regeneration techniques, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process. Steam activation of iron zeolites has been shown to reduce deactivation rates, indicating a promising direction for future research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen in the process, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts, significantly increases propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and optimized conditions to minimize coke formation, as further research on deactivation mechanisms is crucial for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by promoting a reduced state in catalytic sites, favoring selective reactions. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that still catalyze ODHP. However, using pure N2O is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, explaining enhanced selectivity in ODHP. Advanced research is required to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Its lower reoxidation ability reduces VOx site reoxidation, improving propene selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, as more oxygen promotes waste product formation. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits performance, with higher temperatures mitigating this issue. O2 addition reduces C3H6 yields and increases COx, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies include temperature optimization, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts is needed. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective, pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with optimal performance at lower concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates catalyst oxidation state, boosting catalytic efficiency. However, catalyst deactivation and stability issues impede practical implementation, highlighting the need for advanced research strategies to overcome these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by mitigating over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts for N2O-ODHP, exhibiting enhanced performance post-calcination (Quotes 3, 4). However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive properties (Quote 6), and the unclear deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) pose significant challenges. Research is needed to elucidate deactivation pathways, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to curb coke deposition (Quote 8), thereby enhancing N2O-ODHP's practical viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, improving efficiency. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels in ODHP, offering superior propylene selectivity versus O2 at comparable propane conversion. Its milder oxidizing strength curbs direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion, optimizing surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species. This stoichiometric edge promotes selective propene synthesis over combustion. Despite lower activity, propylene selectivity is consistent across VOx species, underscoring N2O's role in enhancing reaction specificity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. N2O significantly curbs direct propane combustion to COx and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O impacts selectivity and activity. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability necessitate advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, with strategies focusing on advanced catalyst design and optimization of reaction conditions to enhance stability and selectivity. Research directions aim to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by a significant increase with 300 ppm N2O for pure NiMoO4. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, indicating practical limitations. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions, could make N2O-ODHP more feasible. The role of -Sb2O4 in oxygen spillover and N2O's inhibition of oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 suggest mechanisms for selectivity modulation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, cause deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its porous structure and mesopores, which reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport. Direct N2O decomposition activity in FeZSM-5 suggests increased resistance to coke deactivation, making it a promising catalyst. Steam activation and iron species are critical for high catalytic activities, with the TEOM revealing that the nature of iron species, zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by limiting peroxovanadate formation, reducing carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating can restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and creating efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, facilitating selective propane oxidation to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration optimizes selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, as observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium-containing materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization, which increases consecutive propene oxidation and direct propane oxidation, effects that are less pronounced with N2O. Research indicates that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency halving with N2O, yet propene selectivity rose to 80% from 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identifies oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, highlighting the need for advanced research to address limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves high propene yields, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2 (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003; Prez-Ramrez and Gallardo-Llamas,2004). Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, significantly reduces propene yield (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003). Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality degradation, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation (quote [2]) hinders propylene yield. Advanced in situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are vital for understanding deactivation mechanisms. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking (quote [10]). Research should focus on the deactivation of iron-containing zeolites in C3H8 + N2O reactions and the catalyst's reversibility on reaction and regeneration cycles (quote [6]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene production at lower temperatures than O2, with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 achieving up to 22% yield (Quote 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major issue (Quote 6). Research directions include optimizing catalysts and conditions to minimize coke formation, as steaming positively impacts iron zeolites (Quote 8), potentially enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over oxygen, excelling with iron-zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 leads in C3H6 yield, with vanadium and molybdenum also showing promise. However, rapid deactivation, often due to coke, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is crucial for stable catalysts and conditions to minimize coke, making N2O-ODHP a viable option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by creating a more selective reaction environment, especially at concentrations above 300 ppm, as it produces less oxidative oxygen species than O2 (Quote 2, 3, 5). However, using pure N2O is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (Quote 17). The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes the catalyst's oxidation state, explaining the improved selectivity in ODHP (Quote 19). Advanced research is required to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation and promoting spatial separation of VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and can be adjusted using N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Advanced research is essential to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K due to its monooxygen donor role and the catalyst's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke formation limits propene yield, with slower deactivation at higher temperatures. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, reducing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx production. Strategies to tackle catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less susceptible active sites. A cost-effective N2O source could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity and yield, reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Its concentration impacts propylene selectivity and carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration enhances catalyst performance by modulating the oxidation state. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges. Advanced research is needed for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, focusing on overcoming these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2 (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as efficient catalysts, with improved performance post-calcination (Quote [3]). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a critical challenge (Quote [5]). Research is essential to understand deactivation mechanisms (Quote [7]) and improve catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by favoring propene formation over decomposition, optimizing active lattice oxygen for selective oxidation, and requiring well-dispersed vanadia species for high selectivity (Quotes 1, 3, 4). Catalyst stability and deactivation pose challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that curbs direct propane and subsequent propene oxidation to COx. This mechanism involves reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is vital for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to its ability to increase the reduction degree of VOx species, crucial for high propylene yield. N2O's lower reoxidation capacity of reduced VOx species results in reduced ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze propene oxidation to COx. The degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. N2O mitigates catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing catalyst structure, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity while reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and optimize reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility. Developing stable catalysts and refining reaction parameters could mitigate deactivation. -Sb2O4 and N2O synergistically control selectivity by inhibiting non-selective sites, suggesting potential for advanced catalysts. (Quote 2) highlights the increase in propylene selectivity with N2O, while (Quote 8) suggests that -Sb2O4 and N2O could play similar roles in controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA) yields up to 25% initial propylene at 723 K. Deactivation, mainly by coke, is a challenge. FeZSM-5 resists deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and extraframework iron species are vital for high activity. TEOM monitoring reveals activity and deactivation patterns. Steam-activated Fe-zeolites outperform commercial ones in initial propene yields. Mesopores in FeZSM-5 reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address deactivation and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a critical challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring O2. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and maintaining catalytic sites in a reduced state, reducing non-selective oxygen species. Its dissociated oxygen directly oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, aiding in overcoming catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. The mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation, particularly with V2O5 nanocrystallites, leading to a drop in propene selectivity. Studies show propane conversion turnover frequency is halved with N2O, yet propene selectivity increases to 80% versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. Further research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, as current data is limited.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves 24% propene yield, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a major challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation from coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). While TEOM with GC analysis reveals correlations between deactivation and coking, it lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is essential for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quote 6). There's a lack of in situ studies on N2O oxidation over iron zeolites, and detailed investigation into catalyst reusability is needed (Quote 9). Complementary spectroscopic studies and catalyst characterization methods are vital for overcoming limitations and advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene production at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 achieving up to 22% yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Further research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and understand the role of acidity in ODHP, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, notably with Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by shifting catalytic sites to a more reduced state, inhibiting non-selective propane activation, and increasing propylene yield while decreasing CO2 selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O provides less oxidizing oxygen species, promoting ODHP. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Full coverage of the support with well-dispersed VOx species and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhance propene selectivity. Active sites with one to two lattice oxygen species favor selective propane oxidation to propene. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels, achieving high propene yields. Its efficiency is attributed to its monooxygen donor role and iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation and reduced propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation. O2 significantly decreases propene selectivity and increases COx production compared to N2O. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with its concentration affecting catalyst oxidation state for improved stability. Advanced research is critical to address catalyst deactivation and stability, enabling practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for this process. However, catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle, with the mechanism needing further research, and strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime are critical for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, leading to higher propene selectivity at the same propane conversion rate. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity further. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, crucial for practical implementation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a more viable option.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 by curbing direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, thanks to its weaker oxidizing potential. This mechanism reduces surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring propylene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, which increases catalyst reduction, reducing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influence selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts compared to O2, due to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation. N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies involve optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the degree of reduction of vanadium species, leading to higher propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, as molybdenum reduction enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, affecting practicality. Research should focus on stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and new catalysts for higher activity and selectivity. N2O and -Sb2O4 synergistically control selectivity and inhibit non-selective sites in mixed catalysts, promoting reduction and adjusting catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, with initial propene yields significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke. TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, measures real-time mass changes during gas-solid reactions, offering advantages over conventional methods. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species and zeolite structure influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. [8] indicates that regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should concentrate on enhancing catalyst stability and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting O2 adsorption, promoting a reduced catalyst state, and converting propane to propene via its dissociated oxygen. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) compared to molecular oxygen (O2), as demonstrated with various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium-containing materials. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O results in a lower concentration of active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. However, VOx sites' increased activity for propene oxidation with higher agglomerization leads to lower selectivity and direct propane oxidation, although this effect is less pronounced with N2O. Advanced research is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, aiming to improve catalyst stability and selectivity, as evidenced by studies showing higher propene selectivity with N2O at approximately 80% versus 50% with O2 at similar propane conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP using Fe-zeolites achieves high propene yields of 24%, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is due to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, indicating complex deactivation mechanisms involving reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, as highlighted in quote 1. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield, as noted in quote 2. Advanced techniques like TEOM and GC monitor coking and deactivation, but lack insights into surface-level mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP, as suggested in quotes 6 and 7. Detailed in situ studies and catalyst reusability assessments are lacking, as highlighted in quotes 9 and 10. Future research should focus on in situ investigations and catalyst regeneration to enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields, notably up to 22% with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting iron zeolites differently based on preparation methods. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as optimizing iron incorporation and developing stable catalyst formulations, are crucial. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and understanding the role of acidity, as a high number of protonic acid sites can accelerate zeolite deactivation. These advancements could make N2O-ODHP a more practical and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP offers a way to utilize this potent greenhouse gas, boosting propylene selectivity over oxygen, as evidenced by Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid deactivation, often due to coke, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and reduced propane and oxygen conversion. Its mechanism involves promoting a more reduced state of catalytic sites, favoring selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less effectively than O2. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst oxidation state modulation, enhancing selectivity in ODHP. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP a more practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced when VOx species fully cover V/g-Al2O3 and N2O is used as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 enhances propylene selectivity, achieving a 25% yield at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propylene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propylene compared to N2O. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP improves propylene yield and environmental impact compared to molecular oxygen, by optimizing catalytic performance through adjusting its concentration. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by mitigating over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts, with improved performance after calcination. Catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductant role, complicates N2O conversion. Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke deposition, extending catalyst life and advancing N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active site concentration and favoring propene formation, as evidenced by reduced O2 activation and optimized lattice oxygen. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. Advanced research is essential for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 by inhibiting propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This mechanism involves reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring propylene formation over combustion. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, which increases catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a critical role in selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, highlighting the need for advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, particularly alumina- and silica-supported, compared to O2. This is due to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. N2O leads to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propylene oxidation to COx are more significant in O2 than in N2O. The catalytic performance is determined by oxidant activation, and N2O's lower oxidizing ability tunes the degree of reduction of vanadium species. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability could involve developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in ODHP selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). Molybdenum reduction by N2O (Quote 3) enhances catalyst selectivity (Quote 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Steam activation and iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP, potentially regenerating the catalyst surface through atomic oxygen recombination and desorption as O2, reacting with coke at specific locations of the zeolite at operating temperature, resulting in COx.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by inhibiting peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise increases carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through high-temperature N2O regeneration, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    