Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state to prevent non-selective oxygen species formation. Its dissociated oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, a key strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. The mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene over-oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with VOx agglomerization increasing propene oxidation. Selectivity remains high at low vanadium surface concentration, but V2O5 nanocrystallites lead to lower selectivity and propane total oxidation, mitigated by N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, highlighting the need for research on active oxygen species. EPR spectroscopy studies over VOx/MCM-41 reveal N2O's positive impact on propene selectivity, underscoring its potential for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs of 24% at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficiency is due to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly diminishes propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Active iron sites in FeZSM-5 show varying sensitivity to coke, complicating deactivation. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is essential for understanding coke evolution and deactivation mechanisms in real-time (Quote [7]), revealing the need for detailed studies under reaction conditions to improve catalyst reusability and understand ODHP under true process conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve significant propylene yields (up to 22%) at 643-773 K, outperforming mixed metal oxides. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Iron impurities in steamed commercial H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Further research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and integrate regeneration techniques to address deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts, while addressing environmental concerns by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts and understanding deactivation mechanisms to optimize conditions and prevent coke formation, making N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield, as evidenced by its ability to promote a more reduced state in catalytic sites (Quote 3). At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, albeit less oxidizing than O2 (Quote 5). However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, highlighting the necessity of molecular oxygen for catalyst regeneration (Quote 17). N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O explains the enhanced selectivity in ODHP (Quote 19). Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 boosts selectivity, while N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene yield. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, and atomic oxygen species from N2O support selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes catalyst deactivation and reduced propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate deactivation by enhancing N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower propene (<5%) and decreases selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. A pure N2O source from cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity and yield, especially with nickel molybdate catalysts at low concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize catalyst performance. However, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Q[2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts (Q[3]). However, catalyst deactivation (Q[5]) and stability are major issues, especially due to complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Q[6]). Understanding deactivation mechanisms (Q[7]) and preventing coke deposition (Q[8]) are critical for enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality. Advanced research is needed to develop stable catalysts and optimize conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species, optimizing steady-state active lattice oxygen concentration for selective oxidation. Using N2O optimizes this concentration, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity, as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent for both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect is attributed to decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O effectively minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a critical role in selectivity and activity. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx, enhancing selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' nature and degree of polymerization influence performance. N2O reduces formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, preventing catalyst deactivation. Strategies include optimizing catalyst structure, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity by reducing propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are used, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as optimizing reaction conditions, could improve N2O-ODHP's feasibility. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites is similar to -Sb2O4's function, suggesting synergistic effects in mixed catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation, highlighting the importance of steam activation for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation resistance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP boosts propene selectivity by uniquely reoxidizing vanadium without forming peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction [3] and [5], is a key challenge. Partial activity restoration is possible through N2O regeneration at high temperatures [8], but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should target enhancing catalyst stability and minimizing vanadium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, keeping sites reduced. Its oxygen, produced by dissociation, oxidizes propane to propene, improving selectivity over other oxidants by controlling catalyst oxidation and limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active lattice oxygen, curbing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx agglomerization enhances propene oxidation, with selectivity plummeting when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, though N2O mitigates this. Recent studies suggest N2O produces fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation. Research is needed to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 with both oxidants, crucial for enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity. Studies show propene selectivity was significantly improved with N2O over various catalysts, and the effect was also observed in n-butane ODHP. Kinetic analysis reveals N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species, leading to lower active oxygen sites and suppressed COx formation. Propene selectivity was higher with N2O, reaching 80% versus 50% with O2 at similar propane conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields 24% initial propene at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, requiring regeneration in pure oxygen at 773 K for 30 min to recover activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in iron zeolites boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to reactive atomic oxygen coordination. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM and GC analysis help monitor deactivation but lack surface-level insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation. Despite this, in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking, as is detailed research on catalyst reusability. Complementary spectroscopic studies and catalyst characterization methods are needed to address these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields than traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing iron incorporation methods and enhancing catalyst stability. Further research is needed to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to minimize catalyst deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is essential to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by moderating catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that facilitate ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O isn't viable for ODHP as it necessitates molecular oxygen to avert swift catalyst deactivation. N2O's function is to suppress non-selective sites, and the coexistence of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state for enhanced selectivity, as evidenced by improved propylene yields in experimental settings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation, requiring only one to two lattice oxygen for the reaction. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O affects catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen species participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, mitigated at higher temperatures like 773 K with high N2O conversion. O2 significantly reduces propene yield (<5%) and increases COx, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less deactivating active sites, and exploring low-cost N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, exhibits superior propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing catalytic performance by reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield while increasing propylene yield. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates catalyst oxidation state, affecting selectivity and carbonaceous product formation. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability necessitate advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as opposed to dioxygen [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for this process. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue [5], exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing catalyst lifetime for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and increasing yield, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation (Quote 1,2). Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface boost selectivity (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4), highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane oxidation and propylene's oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity by less effectively re-oxidizing VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2 where V2O5 lacks selectivity. N2O's benefit is attributed to lowering surface oxygen density in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over O2, due to its reduced re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is required to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, compared to oxygen (O2). This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species leads to reduced consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing propylene selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of VOx species and their degree of polymerization influence catalytic performance. N2O mitigates the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can lead to catalyst deactivation. Challenges in maintaining catalyst stability and activity persist. Strategies include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are crucial. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and selectivity, possibly through new catalyst development or optimizing reaction conditions. Adding 300 ppm of N2O in the feed with NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 increases propylene selectivity while reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. For pure NiMoO4, N2O leads to higher propylene selectivity and lower oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. Under N2O, molybdenum in NiMoO4 works in a more reduced state, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites, achieving high initial propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 shows high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2, leading to higher propene yields despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a critical challenge. Partial regeneration can be achieved by heating under N2O, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and developing efficient regeneration techniques to minimize vanadium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, providing a controlled oxygen source for propane oxidation. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, optimizing the process. Advanced research is needed to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's consecutive oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity. Selectivity remains high for isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, with N2O mitigating this effect. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Previously characterized VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show higher propene selectivity with N2O, despite lower turnover frequency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields 24% initial propene, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites, notably Fe-beta, excel due to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, most severe in Fe-beta, limits propene yield. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites' propensity to deactivate by coke buildup (Quote 2) hinders propylene yield. Advanced research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms and enhance catalyst reusability. Current techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy offer detailed insights but lack surface-level analysis. In situ studies under reaction conditions could significantly enhance understanding of the ODHP process, particularly the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons with N2O over iron-containing zeolites, an area yet to be thoroughly explored (Quotes 7-9).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). The highest propylene yield was achieved with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 (22%) (Quote 7). Strategies to address deactivation include developing stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions. Further research is needed to understand the role of acidity in deactivation, as steam-activated zeolites show slower deactivation (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas (Quote 1). Replacing oxygen with N2O significantly boosts propylene yield for catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones (Quote 2). However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility (Quote 4). Addressing these challenges requires improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms (Quote 5). Research strategies should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield, as evidenced by its ability to work in a more reduced state and inhibit non-selective sites (Quote 3, 7, 8). At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species, selectively promoting ODHP (Quote 5). However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O on catalyst oxidation state are key to improved selectivity in ODHP (Quote 19), highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with VOx species fully covering supports and N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K, attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate this, showing slower deactivation and high N2O conversion. O2 presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and enhancing regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially lowering propane conversion but increasing propylene yield. At higher concentrations, selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting N2O concentration can enhance catalytic performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation to CO and CO2, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, serve as potent catalysts. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant effect on N2O conversion, is a critical challenge. Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing catalyst longevity for practical N2O-ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over O2 activation. High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species, optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration to control selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity by less effectively re-oxidizing surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. The benefit of N2O is linked to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is crucial to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation, as highlighted in recent studies over VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalytic materials.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propene selectivity than O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage stems from the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propene selectivity. However, ODP activity is lower with N2O. N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which catalyze nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. The lower reoxidation ability of N2O for reduced VOx species leads to lower ODP activity but higher propene selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical, with strategies focusing on controlling the surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing molybdenum, improving catalyst selectivity (quote 3, 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, tied to catalyst deactivation and stability. Advanced research, possibly involving catalyst stability enhancement or reaction condition optimization (quote 10), is crucial for N2O-ODHP's industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity with deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species and zeolite structure affects deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge [3], [5]. Partial activity restoration is achieved by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen [8]. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can enhance selectivity, mitigating catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites; N2O mitigates this effect. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. N2O yields higher propene selectivity (80%) vs. O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, aiming to address catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields 24% initial propene with Fe-zeolites at high temperatures, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably faster in Fe-beta than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, reduces propene yield. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by coordinating reactive oxygen with iron zeolites (Quote [1]), but catalyst deactivation by coke (Quote [2]) hinders propylene yield. Advanced research, including in situ studies under reaction conditions, is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability (Quotes [6], [9], [10]). Techniques like TEOM (Quote [3]) and in situ FTIR spectroscopy (Quote [7]) are promising for monitoring coke formation and surface changes, but detailed investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst regeneration are lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by independent research groups using iron zeolites (Quote [4]). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge (Quote [6]). Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts show slower deactivation, indicating the importance of minimizing Brnsted acid sites (Quote [20]). Further research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and explore in situ regeneration techniques to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this through stable catalyst development and understanding deactivation mechanisms could make N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O, less oxidant than O2, can induce ODHP when present above 300 ppm, working by inhibiting non-selective sites and limiting O2 adsorption. However, pure N2O is not advisable as O2 is crucial for catalyst regeneration, preventing quick deactivation. N2O reduces catalysts, explaining high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 and N2O's lower reoxidation ability. This effect, due to less favorable reoxidation by N2O than O2, decreases active surface lattice oxygen, favoring propane oxidation to propene over COx. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling as a monooxygen donor. However, coke formation causes catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate deactivation, correlating with higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing propylene yield and reducing CO2 production. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates catalyst performance, initially improving efficiency but leading to decreased selectivity at higher levels. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation (Q[2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts, with enhanced performance post-calcination (Q[3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle, compounded by propane's reductant effect and complex N2O conversion (Q[5], Q[6]). The deactivation mechanism is unclear (Q[7]), and there's a dearth of strategies to prevent coke buildup and prolong catalyst life (Q[8]). Addressing these issues necessitates research into deactivation dynamics, developing robust catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize catalyst durability, potentially enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and controlling oxidation reactions, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved with N2O, boosts selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are major hurdles, requiring advanced research for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, though it results in lower catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is consistent with both highly dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when N2O is used, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from reducing surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring higher selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as evidenced by studies on alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. The lower ODP activity with N2O is advantageous as it reduces the reoxidation of VOx species, suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, unlike O2, which catalyzes propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been investigated, revealing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Primary C3H6 selectivity is notably higher with N2O across a range of propane conversions, particularly for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, but N2O mitigates issues by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Addressing these challenges requires optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is essential to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are used, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction and selectivity (Quote 7). Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Strategies to address these include developing stable catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction (Quote 10). -Sb2O4 and N2O may play similar roles in controlling selectivity (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, achieves up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA). Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 shows resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. TEOM, coupled with GC analysis, measures real-time mass changes during gas-solid reactions, correlating activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge, noted in [3] and [5]. Partial activity restoration through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as in [8], indicates potential for overcoming limitations. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, keeping sites reduced. Its dissociated O oxidizes propane to propene, curbing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O and promoter concentrations optimizes selectivity, a key strategy for process enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, preventing propylene's overoxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propylene oxidation rises with agglomerization. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propylene selectivity drops, but N2O mitigates this. N2O's superiority is due to fewer non-lattice oxygen species forming from it compared to O2. Limited experimental data on oxygen species from O2 and N2O necessitates further research. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst exhibited higher propylene selectivity with N2O (80%) than O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields 24% initial propene with Fe-zeolites at high temperatures, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation by iron zeolites, offering high propylene selectivity [1]. However, catalyst deactivation by coke significantly reduces propylene yield [2]. The TEOM technique coupled with GC analysis provides insights into coke formation [3-4], while in situ FTIR spectroscopy monitors carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding deactivation [6,7]. Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking [9], and research on catalyst reusability is needed [10].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than conventional oxidants, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, notably steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 (Quote 4). This catalyst shows remarkable propylene yields (22% highest yield, Quote 7) due to enhanced stability and slower deactivation rates. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation (Quote 6), remains a significant challenge. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as optimizing iron incorporation methods and developing catalysts with improved resistance to coke formation, are essential for practical implementation. Further research is needed to understand and control the role of acidity in ODHP, which affects both initial performance and catalyst deactivation (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively (Quote 1). Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts (Quote 2). Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 production, with vanadium and molybdenum also showing promise. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality (Quote 4). Addressing stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms (Quote 5) are critical for N2O-ODHP's feasibility, necessitating advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, contributing to ODP. However, using pure N2O isn't viable due to catalyst deactivation; molecular oxygen is crucial for regeneration. N2O's role in enhancing selectivity is maximized in the presence of both O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is boosted by covering V/g-Al2O3 materials with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen prefer propene over COx. Further research is needed to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation, focusing on oxygen species' role in selectivity and COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 catalysts showcases high propene yields, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. Oxygen's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, deteriorating propene selectivity. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially reducing propane conversion and oxygen consumption while increasing propylene yield. However, high N2O concentrations decrease selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentration can improve catalysts' oxidation state and performance, tackling deactivation and stability issues. Further research on optimizing N2O concentration is crucial for enhancing catalytic activity and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as seen with dioxygen [2]. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5 [3], are promising catalysts for this process. However, catalyst deactivation [5] and the complex conversion of N2O in the presence of propane [6] pose significant challenges. Understanding the deactivation mechanism [7] and developing strategies to prevent coke deposition [8] are crucial for enhancing catalyst stability and lifetime, making N2O-ODHP a more practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to less favorable N2O decomposition compared to O2 activation. High propene selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species on the support. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but boosts selectivity by lowering surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles lack selectivity with O2, unlike N2O. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP by reducing re-oxidation of VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This leads to up to three times higher propylene selectivity than O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is imperative to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show N2O's benefit in avoiding nonselective oxygen species. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring strategies like optimizing catalyst structure, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, as seen in decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts catalyst selectivity. Challenges include managing propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, crucial for practical implementation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are significant issues. Research directions could involve developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction. -Sb2O4 and N2O may have similar roles in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, as evidenced by their effects on molybdenum's state and the selectivity of NiMoO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which rapidly deactivates due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. FeMFI zeolites face deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, with mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity, as it reoxidizes vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, according to [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction as noted in [3] and [5], is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as in [8], can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by maintaining catalysts in a reduced state, inhibiting O2 adsorption, and directly oxidizing propane to propene. Concentration adjustments offer selectivity modulation. Challenges involve catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, as evidenced across iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based catalysts. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active lattice oxygen, curbing propene's oxidation to COx. This effect is consistent across catalysts, including vanadium magnesium oxide for n-butane dehydrogenation. Propene selectivity remains high until V2O5 nanocrystallites form, with N2O mitigating this drop. N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation compared to O2. Advanced research is essential to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, aiming to enhance catalyst stability and selectivity for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields high initial propene production of 24% with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is due to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, significantly reduces propene yield. FeZSM-5 exhibits varying iron site sensitivity to coke, indicating complex deactivation mechanisms. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, coke-induced deactivation significantly hinders propylene yield (Quote 2). While TEOM-GC analysis reveals deactivation patterns, it lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy could monitor carbonaceous deposit formation and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation and regeneration (Quote 6). Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and the extent of catalyst reusability post-regeneration are lacking (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and improved propylene yields, with iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% yield (Quote 4, 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 12) poses a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to mitigate deactivation include optimizing reaction conditions and developing more stable catalysts (Quote 20). Advanced research is essential to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrate regeneration techniques, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates environmental impact by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Iron zeolites and vanadium catalysts significantly boost propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires improved catalyst stability and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, as highlighted in Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, enhancing propylene yield, and lowering CO2 selectivity, as evidenced by the addition of 300 ppm N2O. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that promote selective conditions. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration, as observed in the absence of O2. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. These findings underscore the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a viable practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species, further enhanced by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, as suggested by hypotheses on oxygen species' roles in selective oxidation and COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, up to 25% at 723 K, due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation limits performance. Increasing temperature to 773 K slows deactivation, correlating with higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower propene (<5%) and decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less deactivating active sites, and developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, providing a pure N2O source for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with concentration adjustments enhancing catalytic performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts. This can address challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability, critical for practical implementation. Higher N2O concentrations, however, decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation, indicating a need for advanced research to optimize N2O use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which often yields CO and CO2, reducing olefin yields [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP [3]. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a significant challenge [5]. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could improve N2O-ODHP's practicality [6].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for controlling selective oxidation and combustion (Quotes [1] and [4]). High propylene selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability remains a challenge for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over O2, despite lower catalytic activity due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene over-oxidation, enhancing selectivity. Both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles exhibit similar propylene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities, as evidenced by studies on V/MCM-41 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, especially over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is due to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Strategies to address the limitations of N2O-ODHP include optimizing catalyst structure and composition to enhance stability and selectivity, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to overcome the challenges of catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, as it reduces propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield (Quote 2). Molybdenum reduction under N2O boosts selectivity (Quote 7). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide perform better with N2O (Quote 1). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, crucial for activity, are generated during steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM technique reveals the impact of zeolite structure on deactivation rates, highlighting FeZSM-5's mesopores, formed by dealumination, which reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction ([3], [5]), is a major hurdle. Partial activity restoration through N2O regeneration at high temperatures ([8]) suggests research should focus on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene, and adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over iron zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active oxygen sites, reducing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst demonstrated 80% propene selectivity with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. Further research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation, which EPR spectroscopy can identify under controlled conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields high propene selectivity with Fe-zeolites, matching V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, poses a significant challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield. FeZSM-5 exhibits sites with varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is imperative to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits its practicality. The TEOM technique with GC analysis effectively monitors deactivation but lacks insights into the deactivation mechanism. Complementary in situ spectroscopic studies, like FTIR, are essential for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, improving ODHP understanding. Despite the need for in situ investigations and catalyst reusability studies, research in this area is lacking. Infrared and TEOMGC experiments complement each other, aiding in evaluating catalyst reversibility post-regeneration, as confirmed by XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption analyses.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, demonstrate remarkable propylene yields due to their efficiency at lower temperatures (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime (Quote 6). Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, and in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on alternative iron sources, catalysts resistant to deactivation, and integrated process designs could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality. Steam activation of zeolites has shown to slow down deactivation (Quote 20), highlighting the potential of this approach in improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas eco-friendly. Replacing O2 with N2O boosts propylene yield, notably with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke, limits N2O's practicality. Research is crucial for improving stability and understanding deactivation, aiming to make N2O-ODHP viable. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and designing deactivation-resistant catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield, as per quote 2. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute, though less effectively than O2 (quote 5). Pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (quote 17). N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation (quote 19). The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state, enhancing propylene yield (quotes 6, 7, 8). Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials improve selectivity, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Research gaps exist regarding oxygen species' role in selectivity and COx formation, suggesting areas for future investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, mitigated by higher temperatures, as observed at 773 K with slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower propene (<5%) and negatively impacts propene production intermediates. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less deactivating active sites, and developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially enhancing propylene yield while reducing propane conversion and oxygen consumption. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can improve catalyst stability and oxidation state, addressing key challenges. Advanced research is needed to optimize N2O concentration and enhance catalyst stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation, as opposed to dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, serve as efficient catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductant role in N2O conversion, is a major hurdle. The deactivation mechanism is complex, and methods to prevent coke deposition and prolong catalyst lifetime are needed. Research into deactivation, catalyst stability, and reaction optimization is essential for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, as per Quote 1 and 2. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support, mentioned in Quote 3, boost selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O, as in Quote 4, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for propane and propene activation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces active surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion. This selectivity is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles, despite lower catalytic activity due to reduced re-oxidation capability of surface VOx. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities under N2O favor propene over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences the selectivity and activity of vanadium-based catalysts, with N2O promoting higher propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity but suppresses consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are more significant with O2 than N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, requiring strategies to maintain high vanadium reduction and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research should focus on oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled active oxygen species for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions. [Quote 1] highlights the increase in propene selectivity with N2O over vanadia catalysts. [Quote 3] explains the lower ODP activity with N2O due to its reduced ability to reoxidize VOx species. [Quote 5] notes that N2O does not produce nonselective oxygen species, unlike O2, which catalyzes nonselective propene oxidation. [Quote 10] emphasizes the reduction in consecutive C3H6 oxidation to COx in the presence of N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction under N2O boosts catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Strategies involve developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction. -Sb2O4 and N2O may play similar roles in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, as evidenced by their effects on NiMoO4's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking by coke and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over other oxidants by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits, as per [3], is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration can be achieved by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen, as indicated in [8]. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, keeping sites reduced. Its dissociated O oxidizes propane to propene selectively. Concentration adjustments can modulate selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Slower VOx reoxidation with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, curbing propene to COx oxidation. VOx agglomerization escalates propene oxidation, and high vanadium levels trigger total propane oxidation, less severe with N2O. Studies indicate extra oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, a feature absent with N2O. Limited data on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O underscores the need for further research. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high initial propene outputs of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta zeolites deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility, necessitating advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP, enhancing propylene selectivity, is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation by coke deposition (Quote 2) limits performance. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed to monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms (Quotes 7 and 8). Advanced research is needed to address catalyst reversibility and regeneration, as current studies lack detailed insights into these processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by independent research groups using iron zeolites (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrating catalyst regeneration steps into the process design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP leverages its potent greenhouse gas properties, enhancing propylene selectivity across catalysts like iron and vanadium-based materials, as per quotes 2 and 3. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation (quote 4), limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires research into stable catalysts and deactivation mechanisms (quote 5), potentially optimizing conditions to minimize coke and engineering resistant catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing the catalyst's state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption (quotes 2, 3, 4). At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2 (quote 5). However, pure N2O use leads to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating O2 for regeneration (quotes 17, 19). N2O's role in improving selectivity is attributed to its ability to inhibit non-selective propane activation and modulate the catalyst's oxidation state, especially in the presence of O2 (quotes 7, 8). Further research is needed to address these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity improves on V/g-Al2O3 materials with well-dispersed VOx species, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity. The mechanism involves a decrease in active surface lattice oxygen, favoring propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical for practical implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms other oxidants in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation limits its efficiency. Higher temperatures mitigate this issue, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, with even small amounts decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts, aiming for cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with nickel molybdate catalysts' performance enhanced at low N2O concentrations, increasing propylene yield. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates catalyst oxidation state, potentially improving performance and addressing stability and deactivation challenges, highlighting the need for advanced research to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, with enhanced performance post-calcination. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicates N2O conversion. Research is crucial to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, extending catalyst life and enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, as N2O decomposition is less favorable, reducing active sites and boosting propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface further improve selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved by using N2O, effectively controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This is attributed to reduced active surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation. N2O ensures comparable propene selectivity with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2, which promotes combustion. Research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's diminished capacity to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a greater degree of catalyst reduction. N2O effectively curbs direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, thereby improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity, with N2O's oxygen species playing a pivotal role in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation processes. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues, which are critical for the practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, leading to spatial separation of active lattice oxygen species and reducing the surface density of active oxygen species. This effect is more pronounced for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies such as controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased selectivity and reduced CO2 yield, as per studies. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxides are utilized, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, alongside catalyst deactivation and stability issues. Strategies to address these involve developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, as well as its ability to reduce the surface of molybdenum, are pivotal to enhancing the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its more open structure that reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP, indicating a potential for advanced research to overcome limitations and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2, which boosts propene yield. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is possible through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and controlling catalyst oxidation state, thus reducing non-selective oxygen species formation. Its dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize selectivity, a strategy for enhancing catalytic reaction efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation rises with agglomeration. Propene selectivity is stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed propane conversion turnover frequency halved with N2O vs. O2, yet propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50% at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy can identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41, assessing their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation. Further research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP showcases high propene yields (24%) with Fe-zeolites, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Its monooxygen donor role and Fe-zeolites' reactive oxygen coordination are key. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propene yield, with Fe-beta zeolites deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is imperative to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, as seen in iron zeolites' enhanced performance due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation significantly reduces propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst regeneration. In situ FTIR spectroscopy could monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, offering real-time reaction monitoring (Quote 7). Despite this, in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites (Quote 9) and catalyst reusability (Quote 10) remain unexplored areas requiring attention.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% propylene yield (Quote 4, 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Strategies to address this include optimizing iron incorporation methods, enhancing catalyst stability, and developing in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to minimize catalyst deactivation, as deactivation is slower over steam-activated zeolites with a reduced number of Brnsted sites (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts, where Fe-ZSM-5 excels. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms for viable N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O's dissociation products selectively promote ODHP. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. Optimal selectivity in ODHP is achieved with a combination of O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. Research should focus on developing catalysts that maintain stability and selectivity in the presence of N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting reoxidation, promoting catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with VOx species coverage and N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation is crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen. Nickel molybdate catalysts doped with N2O show improved performance: increased propane conversion, propylene yield, and selectivity, and reduced oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low N2O concentrations. However, high N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are key catalysts (Quote 3). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's effect on N2O conversion (Quote 6), and unclear deactivation mechanisms (Quote 7) hinder efficiency. Research is needed to understand deactivation (Quote 8) and develop stable catalysts to minimize coke and extend lifetime, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are essential for high propene selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, key for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over O2, with similar propane conversion. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, slightly lowering catalytic activity due to less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is uniform across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with nanoparticles. N2O's advantage lies in reduced surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than with O2, by limiting the re-oxidation of reduced VOx species. Studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show that the higher degree of catalyst reduction under N2O leads to improved initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O reducing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability remains a critical challenge, necessitating advanced research to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propene selectivity over O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity than with O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. The challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Strategies for practical implementation involve understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide improve the process, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for better selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 shows high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. TEOM reveals the impact of catalyst structure on deactivation, with FeZSM-5's more open structure reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise boosts carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is possible through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy for practical implementation, while addressing catalyst stability and deactivation remains a critical research area.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, and in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Kinetic analysis shows slower VOx species reoxidation with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Research suggests additional oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst demonstrated a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, compared to half with N2O, but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41, exploring their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP yields high propene (24%) with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly diminishes propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke (Quote [2]) is a significant challenge, reducing propylene yield. The TEOM technique coupled with GC analysis monitors coking and deactivation effectively but lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quote [6]). Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, highlighting a research gap (Quote [10]). Complementary spectroscopic studies and in situ investigations are needed to advance N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions. Further research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, making it a viable oxidant. Iron and vanadium catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel but face rapid deactivation, primarily due to coke formation. Addressing this through stability improvements and understanding deactivation mechanisms could make N2O-ODHP more practical. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and engineering resistance to deactivation, as indicated by the need for further study in quote [5].", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by promoting a more selective catalyst state. At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O leads to catalyst deactivation; molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst regeneration. N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the synergy of O2 and N2O enhances selectivity in ODHP, as evidenced by studies showing improved propylene yield with N2O addition. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3, tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms. More oxygen atoms favor waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species from N2O favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic species from O2 participate in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate this by slowing deactivation and increasing N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower propene (<5%) and increases COx production. Strategies include temperature optimization, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research on NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially enhancing propylene yield while reducing propane conversion and oxygen consumption. However, excessive N2O decreases selectivity and promotes carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations can optimize catalyst performance. Research on catalyst deactivation and stability in N2O-ODHP is scarce, highlighting the need for advanced studies to overcome limitations for practical application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, particularly calcined Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by complex N2O conversion and unclear mechanisms, is a major hurdle. Research is needed to clarify deactivation, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke formation, enhancing catalyst longevity and practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane combustion, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation, crucial for practical implementation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for wider application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but selectively favors propene formation over combustion reactions. Unlike O2, N2O's effect on propylene selectivity is independent of VOx species dispersion or crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles. The positive impact of N2O is attributed to decreasing surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, promoting propene formation at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lesser ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction, particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O's use minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity, with N2O reducing non-selective reaction pathways. These findings underscore the importance of catalyst reduction degree and oxygen species nature in propene selectivity, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, especially over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is due to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in ODHP. Strategies to overcome these limitations include developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased yields and reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 production. Studies with NiMoO4, -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides show N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical implementation. Research directions focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. -Sb2O4's role in controlling selectivity and N2O's inhibition of oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction, are key areas for further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. Deactivation by coke is a major drawback, causing a rapid decrease in propene yield. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction as per [3] and [5], poses a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O can partially restore activity, with full recovery requiring oxygen, as observed in [8]. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and devising effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Its dissociated oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Concentration adjustments can modulate selectivity, tackling deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a research-intensive process for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. The mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx agglomerization impacts propene selectivity, with V2O5 nanocrystallites causing a significant drop in selectivity and direct propane oxidation, an effect mitigated by N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst demonstrated higher propene selectivity with N2O (80%) than O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower turnover frequency. Research is needed on the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, as non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2 (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003; Prez-Ramrez and Gallardo-Llamas,2004). Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is due to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta most affected, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality degradation, and pore space accessibility issues (Moulijn et al., 2001). Advanced research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced research is essential to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, highlighting the need for detailed studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reversibility on reaction and regeneration cycles (Quotes 7, 8).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants, with iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and optimize reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, focusing on iron sources, incorporation methods, and catalyst regeneration techniques. Steam activation reduces deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. The presence of acidic groups coexisting with extraframework iron species is beneficial for the reaction, suggesting further research on acidity's role in ODHP is required.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP leverages its potent greenhouse gas status, enhancing propylene selectivity, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based Fe-ZSM-5 excels in propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, notably from coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this through stable catalyst development and deactivation mechanism understanding could optimize N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by promoting a more selective catalyst state. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion, enhances propylene yield, and reduces CO2 selectivity. N2O's presence above 300 ppm suggests a role in ODP through oxygen species from its dissociation, though it is less oxidant than O2. Pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity in ODP by modulating their oxidation state, indicating that N2O inhibits non-selective sites and enhances selectivity when used alongside O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with VOx species fully covering supports and N2O's use as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields 25% propene at 723 K, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 addition significantly lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, deteriorating performance. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods, focusing research on understanding coke formation and identifying cost-effective catalysts for N2O production to enhance practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with optimal results at low concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing performance. Higher concentrations, however, decrease selectivity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical implementation, requiring further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation. Iron-zeolites, particularly calcined Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's influence on N2O conversion, and coke deposition, which limits catalyst lifetime, pose significant challenges. Research is needed to clarify deactivation mechanisms and develop stable catalysts to optimize conditions and reduce coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, reducing active sites and boosting selectivity (Quotes 1, 2). High selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species on the support (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, crucial for selective oxidation, is better with N2O than O2 (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than with O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's lower ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a crucial role in selectivity and activity. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated in studies on vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species is crucial for high propene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species also impacts COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by 32% for pure NiMoO4 catalysts, as per quote 6, while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction under N2O, as noted in quote 7, enhances selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality, and catalyst deactivation. Research should target enhancing catalyst stability and activity, possibly through new catalysts or optimized reaction conditions, addressing the limitations highlighted in the context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 shows resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly from vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery needing O2. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and refining regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    