Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating through O dissociation to convert propane to propene. In a reduced state, catalytic sites curb non-selective oxygen species. Concentration adjustments of N2O can fine-tune selectivity, offering a path to optimize the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over O2, as evidenced across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency halving with N2O, yet propene selectivity increased from 50% to 80%. Research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation, as N2O forms fewer non-lattice oxygen species, reducing COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP achieves high propene yields (24%) at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is due to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, rapidly diminishes propene yield. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, as noted in quote [1]. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield, as highlighted in quote [2]. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC, mentioned in quotes [7] and [8], are essential for understanding coke formation and deactivation mechanisms. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability, as mentioned in quote [10], are lacking. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations, ensuring N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge. Research is needed to develop more stable catalyst formulations, optimize reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Strategies include investigating alternative iron sources, designing catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation, and integrating catalyst regeneration steps into process designs, as suggested by the high performance of steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Replacing oxygen with N2O significantly boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality compared to CO2. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by moderating the oxidation state of catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to the necessity of molecular oxygen for catalyst regeneration, preventing rapid deactivation. N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODHP improves selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is boosted by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 materials with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation. Direct evidence is lacking, necessitating further research to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor function and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation limits propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 as an oxidant significantly reduces propene yield compared to N2O. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing temperature and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts is crucial. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, evidenced by its effect on nickel molybdate catalysts: it reduces propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and decreases oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at lower concentrations. Higher N2O levels decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially enhancing stability and performance, addressing challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability. Advanced research is needed to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably calcined Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle, exacerbated by propane's presence, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, and methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime are lacking. Research into deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, reducing active sites and boosting propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support further improve selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's positive effect stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, requiring advanced research for practical implementation. Studies show that the degree of vanadium site reduction and the nature of oxygen species play critical roles in the observed selectivity differences.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, compared to oxygen (O2). This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity than O2 but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges. Strategies to address these limitations include developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and reduces CO2 yield, as evidenced by decreased propane and oxygen conversion (Quotes 2, 5, 6). It promotes molybdenum reduction, improving catalyst selectivity (Quotes 3, 7, 10). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical implementation. Research directions should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. The TEOM technique offers real-time measurements of mass changes during gas-solid reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities, and the presence of mesopores in FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking by coke, improving reactant and product transport. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 may lead to coke reaction, resulting in COx and partial catalyst regeneration. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which reduces carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial regeneration can be achieved by heating under N2O at high temperatures, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques, as indicated by studies showing vanadium's role in deactivation and the effectiveness of N2O in catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and fostering catalyst reduction, creating a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Dissociated O from N2O oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O and promoter concentrations can enhance selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability issues, vital for practical ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. This is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and minimizing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx agglomerization, however, increases consecutive propene oxidation. Selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, with N2O mitigating this effect. Unlike N2O, other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. Limited experimental data exists on oxygen species from O2 and N2O. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41, noting N2O halves propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy will help identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs of 24% at 773-798 K, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites, specifically steam-activated ones, excel due to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propene yield, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, indicating diverse iron site sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore space accessibility, a complex process needing advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, as evidenced by iron zeolites' superior performance (Quote [1]). However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research is crucial to understand deactivation mechanisms and catalyst regeneration, particularly using in situ FTIR spectroscopy for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes (Quote [6]). Detailed in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are needed, as these areas remain unexplored (Quote [9]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to O2. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts under N2O, achieving significant propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced iron sources and incorporation methods, along with catalysts resistant to deactivation, could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates environmental impact by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Replacing oxygen with N2O significantly boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is crucial to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, paving the way for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, enhancing catalytic site reduction and selectivity. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that still induce ODHP. However, pure N2O causes rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is vital for regeneration. N2O inhibits non-selective sites and, in synergy with O2, modulates catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 boosts selectivity, with N2O serving as an efficient oxidant. Its reduced reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its advantage lies in its monooxygen donor property and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields much lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O, and small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production. Strategies to overcome limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially lowering propane conversion but enhancing propylene yield and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2. At high N2O levels, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Modulating promoter concentrations, like N2O, can improve catalyst performance, tackling deactivation and stability issues. Research is needed to optimize N2O concentration for better catalytic activity and practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts for N2O-ODHP, achieving high performance after calcination ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature, is a major hurdle ([5], [6]). Understanding deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts are essential research directions to minimize coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime for practical N2O-ODHP implementation ([7], [8]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion (Quotes 1, 2). Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support achieve high propene selectivity (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O instead of O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4). Advanced research is essential to overcome catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from lowering surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion to COx and consecutive propene oxidation, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a critical role in catalyst selectivity and activity. [1] [3] [5] [6] [13]", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propene selectivity than O2, especially over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is due to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show varying degrees of polymerization of VOx species, affecting their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations in catalyst stability and to make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, as evidenced by a 32% increase in selectivity for pure NiMoO4 catalysts (Quote 6). The addition of 300 ppm N2O decreases propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield (Quotes 2, 5). Molybdenum reduction under N2O boosts selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical implementation. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, improving activity, and optimizing reaction conditions to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its porous structure and iron constitution. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but can also lead to coke reaction, partially regenerating the catalyst surface. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition show increased resistance to coke deactivation, as evidenced by the performance of FeZSM-5 compared to FeBEA and commercial zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits ([3], [5]), poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures ([8]), though full recovery requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and devising efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, creating a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Its oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to O2. This enhancement is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, which decreases active oxygen sites and limits propylene's oxidation to COx. Challenges emerge with VOx agglomerization, reducing propylene selectivity and causing propane's total oxidation, although less severe with N2O. Preliminary studies suggest non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O, highlighting the need for further research to understand the nature of oxygen species formed. Kinetic analysis and EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions are proposed to identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, aiming to improve catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke rapidly diminishes propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore space accessibility. Advanced research is essential to address deactivation and enhance catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis offers detailed insights into coke formation but lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism details. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation. Despite these tools, in situ studies on N2O selective oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability remain unexplored, indicating a research gap for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, notably with iron zeolites, achieving up to 22% yield with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, but steamed zeolites show slower deactivation rates. Further research is needed to develop stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Investigating alternative iron sources and improving catalyst resistance to deactivation could enhance N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, particularly with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is crucial for developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and reduced propane and oxygen conversion. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP. However, pure N2O use is impractical due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. Optimal selectivity is achieved with a combination of O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation remains a critical research area for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 boosts selectivity, tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms. More oxygen promotes waste product formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Direct evidence is lacking, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency stems from its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate this by increasing N2O conversion and slowing deactivation. O2's use decreases C3H6 yields and boosts COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less deactivating active sites, and developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, providing a pure N2O source for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, evidenced by its performance in other oxidation reactions. At low concentrations, N2O enhances propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. However, higher concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation. Adjusting promoter concentrations can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as seen with dioxygen [2]. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts with enhanced performance post-calcination [3]. Catalyst deactivation, a critical issue [5], complicates N2O conversion on iron-zeolites due to propane's presence. Research is vital to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to curb coke formation, enhancing catalyst longevity for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, as its less favorable decomposition reduces active sites and boosts propene yield (Quote 1, 2). High propene selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (paraphrased from Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4), crucial for practical ODHP. Advanced research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms O2 in ODHP by enhancing propylene selectivity at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and propylene oxidation to COx, slightly lowering catalytic activity due to less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is uniform across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's superiority is attributed to reduced surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species. This leads to a higher degree of catalyst reduction, particularly beneficial for bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, improving propene selectivity. N2O's lower propensity for direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx results in improved initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity, with N2O decreasing CO2 and CO formation compared to O2, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, attributed to the higher reduction degree of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation. The lower reoxidation ability of N2O results in lower ODP activity compared to O2, as observed for VOx/MCM-41 and VOx/γ-Al2O3. N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, requiring advanced research to develop strategies for enhanced stability and selectivity. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing catalysts that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity by reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion (Quote 2). It facilitates molybdenum reduction in catalysts like NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). N2O's selectivity control is akin to -Sb2O4's role in oxygenating MoO3's surface (Quote 8). However, catalyst deactivation and stability are major hurdles. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to improve longevity and selectivity, making N2O-ODHP more practical (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, crucial for activity, are generated during steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, and the presence of mesopores in FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and slows deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits ([3], [4], [5]), is a significant issue. Partial activity restoration can be achieved by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures ([8]), but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. This curbs non-selective oxygen species and regulates catalyst oxidation. Adjusting N2O concentration offers a strategy to optimize selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, as evidenced across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species leads to fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. This effect is less pronounced with V2O5 nanocrystallites, where propene selectivity drops and propane undergoes total oxidation. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species than O2, affecting COx formation. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, compared to half with N2O, yet propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50% at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, highlighting a research gap in understanding oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP showcases superior propene yields of 24% at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly hinders propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest among Fe-zeolites. Research is imperative to address catalyst deactivation, involving reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility, for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, coke-induced deactivation limits iron zeolites, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy (Quote 7) and TEOM-GC analysis are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms, though detailed surface-level insights are lacking (Quote 5). Advanced research is needed to explore selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites (Quote 9) and assess catalyst reusability post-regeneration, as these areas remain underexplored (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, up to 22% with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge. Research directions include developing stable catalysts, minimizing coke formation, and integrating regeneration techniques. Understanding the role of acidity and exploring alternative iron sources could enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP leverages its greenhouse gas status for environmental gain and enhances propylene selectivity, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts. Iron-based Fe-ZSM-5 excels in propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly by coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalyst development, condition optimization to curb coke, and deactivation mechanism insights for robust design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, enhancing yield while reducing propane and oxygen conversion. It promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute, though less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is crucial for regeneration. N2O inhibits non-selective sites and synergizes with O2 to modulate the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and optimizing VOx species distribution, favoring selective oxidation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on supports and N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Research on catalyst stability is crucial for N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K, due to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation limits propene yield, with higher temperatures reducing deactivation. O2 yields lower C3H6 (<5%) and deteriorates performance by increasing COx. Strategies include temperature optimization, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research on coke formation and active sites, as well as cost-effective N2O sources, could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen in nickel molybdate catalysts, which exhibit improved propylene yield and selectivity at low N2O concentrations. However, higher N2O levels reduce propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, addressing deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a promising but research-intensive option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by complex N2O conversion and unclear mechanisms, is a hurdle. Research is vital to elucidate deactivation, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to curb coke formation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. This is due to N2O's less favorable decomposition compared to O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, effectively controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but boosts selectivity, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower surface densities. Research on catalyst stability is crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP by up to three times compared to O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced re-oxidation ability, enhancing catalyst reduction. N2O curbs direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact selectivity and activity. Advanced research is crucial to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is due to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed through advanced research focusing on the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Strategies could involve designing selective catalysts, understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation, and developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield, as per quote 2. NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 catalysts, along with palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are key, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for better selectivity, as quote 7 indicates. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are significant challenges. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding N2O's role in inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction and selectivity, as suggested by quote 10.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, influence deactivation behavior. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's more open structure, due to mesopores from dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can react with coke, leading to COx and partial catalyst regeneration. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP enhances propene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as noted in [1] and [2]. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction as indicated in [3] and [5], poses a significant challenge. Strategies for overcoming this limitation include catalyst regeneration by heating under N2O at high temperatures, as observed in [8]. Advanced research is imperative to develop stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and refine regeneration methods for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. O from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, curbing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, aiding catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, evident across iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active lattice oxygen, curbing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' propene oxidation activity rises with agglomeration. Propene selectivity holds steady under monolayer vanadium coverage but plummets with V2O5 nanocrystallites, mitigated by N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Research is scarce on oxygen species from O2 and N2O; a study aims to identify these over VOx/MCM-41. N2O halves propane conversion's turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity vs. O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will pinpoint oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, thanks to Fe-zeolites' monooxygen donation and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, rapidly diminishes propene yield, with varying iron site sensitivity in FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates iron zeolites, reducing propylene yield. Advanced in situ techniques, like FTIR spectroscopy, are crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms and regeneration in the C3H8 + N2O reaction. Research gaps include the lack of in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and detailed evaluation of catalyst reusability after regeneration. Detailed analysis methods, complemented by infrared and TEOMGC experiments, are essential for assessing catalyst reversibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts under N2O, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and explore alternative iron sources to enhance resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this through stable catalyst development and understanding deactivation mechanisms is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by promoting a more selective catalyst state. At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that moderately induce ODHP. However, using pure N2O is unadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's inhibition of non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in adjusting the catalyst's oxidation state during ODHP are crucial for enhanced selectivity, indicating a promising research direction for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene yield. Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O compared to O2 increases selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O support selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels in propylene selectivity, achieving 25% yields at 723 K. Its superiority stems from its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propylene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production, and deteriorates performance. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen in nickel molybdate catalysts where N2O doping increases propylene yield and selectivity while reducing CO2 production. However, high N2O concentrations decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Catalyst deactivation and stability issues hinder practical N2O-ODHP implementation, necessitating further research to optimize promoter concentration and enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation compared to dioxygen ([2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a significant challenge ([5], [6]). The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is complex, lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime ([7], [8]). Advanced research is needed to address these limitations and improve N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, as per Quotes 1 and 2. High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration using N2O over O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2 due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, promoting greater catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective for catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Studies over VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalytic materials demonstrate higher initial propene selectivity with N2O across various vanadium oxides. The degree of reduction of vanadium sites and the nature of oxygen species play a crucial role in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity compared to O2, particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species and the degree of polymerization of VOx species influence the catalytic performance. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide, when used with N2O, improve selectivity by reducing molybdenum. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding how N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. N2O promotes a slightly more reduced state of molybdenum in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity, and may inhibit oxygen adsorption, promoting reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yield at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA is significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which minimizes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, but full recovery necessitates oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to avoid vanadium reduction, and refining regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, working in a reduced state to produce selective oxygen species for propane oxidation to propene. Adjusting promoter concentrations can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, as suggested by research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx agglomerization increases consecutive propene oxidation, impacting selectivity. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed 80% propene selectivity with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is used to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41 and assess their reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs, akin to V and Mo-based catalysts, due to Fe-zeolites' monooxygen donation and reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, hinders performance. Catalyst deactivation, involving active site reduction and pore space accessibility issues, requires advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, boosting iron zeolites' performance (Quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation by coke (Quote [2]) significantly reduces propylene yield, highlighting the need for advanced research to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability after regeneration (Quote [6]). Notably, in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking (Quote [9]), emphasizing the necessity for detailed investigations to address limitations and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as evidenced by independent research (quote 4). Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated ones, exhibit superior performance in this process. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (quote 6), impacting stability and lifetime. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalyst formulations, optimize reaction conditions, and implement in situ regeneration techniques. Potential research directions include exploring alternative iron sources, designing catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation, and integrating regeneration steps into the process design, as suggested by the slower deactivation observed in steam-activated zeolites (quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates greenhouse gas, as per quote [2]. Iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts show notable yield improvements. However, catalyst deactivation, quote [4], due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is pivotal for stable catalysts, minimizing coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms, aligning with quote [5].", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by promoting a more selective catalyst state (Quote 3). At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O aids ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2 (Quote 5). However, pure N2O causes rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O inhibits non-selective sites, enhancing selectivity (Quote 7, 8). The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes the catalyst's oxidation state for improved propylene yield (Quote 19). Further research is needed to address limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on the catalyst surface and N2O's lower reoxidation ability boost propene production. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Despite a lack of direct evidence, theory supports N2O's role in selective propane oxidation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yield. Its efficiency stems from its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures slow deactivation and boost N2O conversion. O2 significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity compared to N2O. Strategies to tackle deactivation include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing cost-effective N2O sources through selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, boosts propylene selectivity and yield, reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. However, excessive N2O decreases propylene selectivity and promotes carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentration can enhance catalyst stability and performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, offering a strategy to overcome limitations and advance N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation ([5]) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane hinder performance. Research on deactivation mechanisms, stable catalysts, and conditions minimizing coke formation is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation ([8]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by lowering active site concentration and favoring propene formation. Well-dispersed vanadia species boost selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, vital for practical ODHP implementation. (Quote 1) N2O reduces overall activity but increases propene selectivity. (Quote 2) N2O's less favorable decomposition leads to higher propene selectivity. (Quote 3) Full coverage of the support by vanadia species achieves high propene selectivity. (Quote 4) Using N2O optimizes active lattice oxygen, controlling selective oxidation and combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2 by inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This effect is linked to reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion. Despite lower catalytic activity, N2O ensures comparable propylene selectivity with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and re-oxidation efficiency for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to greater catalyst reduction. Direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are minimized with N2O, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences catalyst selectivity and activity. Advanced research is essential to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability, critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts compared to O2, due to a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces nonselective oxygen species formation, enhancing selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization influences consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, with strategies focusing on optimizing surface density of active oxygen species and reaction conditions. N2O mitigates deactivation by reducing nonselective oxygen species. Practical implementation strategies involve optimizing catalyst structure for stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants for high activity and selectivity while ensuring stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, as per quote 2. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide are pivotal, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity (quotes 3 and 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, indicating limitations. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding -Sb2O4 and N2O's role in controlling selectivity (quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing remarkable resistance unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation resistance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring O2. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by maintaining catalytic sites in a reduced state, selectively oxidizing propane to propene with its dissociated oxygen, and modulating selectivity through concentration adjustments, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Prior studies on VOx/MCM-41 show propane conversion turnover frequency halves with N2O, yet propene selectivity jumps from 50% to 80% at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy identifies oxygen species from N2O and O2, exploring their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields 24% initial propene with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propene yield, though regeneration in pure oxygen at 773 K can restore activity. Deactivation rates vary: Fe-beta > Fe-silicalite > FeZSM-5, with FeZSM-5's behavior indicating diverse iron sites' sensitivity to coke. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). While TEOM with GC analysis reveals deactivation and coking correlations, surface-level deactivation insights are lacking. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quote 7). Detailed coke formation insights from TEOM highlight the need for in situ studies on N2O selective oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability, addressing research gaps (Quote 8). Complementary spectroscopic studies and catalyst characterization methods are essential for evaluating reversibility and improving practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields, with iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and explore alternative iron sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates environmental impact by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Replacing oxygen with N2O boosts propylene yield, particularly with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is crucial for improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP viable. Strategies involve developing robust catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state (Quote 3). At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2 (Quote 5). However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the presence of both O2 and N2O modulates the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity (Quote 19). Further research is needed to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Full coverage of the support with well-dispersed VOx species and N2O's use as an oxidant improve propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity compared to O2, reducing active surface lattice oxygen necessary for selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 boosts propylene yields due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation deactivates the catalyst, reducing propylene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity compared to N2O, increasing COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, and developing cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with optimal performance at lower concentrations, enhancing propylene yield while reducing carbonaceous byproducts. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability challenges hinder practical N2O-ODHP implementation, necessitating advanced research for feasible solutions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as opposed to dioxygen [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts [3]. However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue [5], exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on N2O conversion [6]. Addressing deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts are essential [8] for enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are vital for high selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, tackling catalyst stability and deactivation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces catalytic activity but favors propylene formation. VOx species' surface density is crucial, with N2O's weaker re-oxidation ability enhancing selectivity. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propylene over combustion reactions, aligning with N2O's benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction. This enhancement is particularly evident with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O effectively minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, resulting in improved initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a critical role in selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, due to a higher degree of reduction of VOx species. This is critical for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to oxygen (O2). N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Strategies for practical implementation involve understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity and molybdenum reduction, improving catalyst selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Potential strategies involve developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after extended periods. The TEOM technique reveals that the nature of iron species, zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, and the more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking by coke, improving reactant and product transport. Highly active Fe-zeolite catalysts in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction ([3], [5]), poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration through N2O heating ([8]) suggests research should focus on improving catalyst stability, preventing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, keeping sites in a reduced state. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, addressing catalyst issues, making N2O-ODHP a viable research area.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, as evidenced across diverse catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. Research aims to identify oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41, using EPR spectroscopy to explore their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation. Propene selectivity is 80% with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP achieves high propene yields, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, due to Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation, notably by coke, is a significant challenge, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, indicating differing sensitivity to deactivation. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and overcome deactivation, crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as demonstrated by iron zeolites' superior performance [1]. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation significantly hinders propylene yield [2]. Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking [6], [9], [10], highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts achieving significant propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation. Steam activation and the presence of iron impurities in H-ZSM-5 are beneficial, leading to higher propylene yields and lower COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and improving stability are key to making N2O-ODHP a practical petrochemical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP leverages a potent greenhouse gas, enhancing propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Iron-based and redox metal catalysts, notably vanadium and molybdenum, boost propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this through stable catalyst development and deactivation mechanism understanding could make N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, as evidenced by decreased propane and oxygen conversion and increased propylene yield, according to quote [2]. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less effectively than O2 (quote [5]). However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (quote [17]). N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity (quote [19]). Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 boosts selectivity, further tunable with N2O. Reduced VOx site reoxidation by N2O favors propene over COx formation, as 1-2 lattice oxygen species per active site are optimal for selective propane oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving notable propene yields due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, rapid deactivation from coke formation hinders performance, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing resilience at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower propene compared to N2O and decreases propene selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less susceptible active sites, aiming to develop selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially lowering propane conversion but enhancing propylene yield and selectivity, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can optimize catalyst performance, addressing deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as seen with dioxygen [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP [3]. However, catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle, exacerbated by complex N2O conversion on iron-zeolites [6] and an unclear deactivation mechanism [7]. Addressing these requires advanced research to develop stable catalysts and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime [8].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over O2, as N2O decomposition is less favorable. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation. Advanced research should focus on catalyst design and N2O utilization for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but enhances selectivity. Dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no significant difference in propylene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is needed to overcome catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propene selectivity than O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. The critical challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms, developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species, and optimizing reaction conditions for selective oxygen species formation. N2O's advantages in ODHP are related to its ability to achieve higher primary propene selectivity and lower activity for consecutive propene oxidation, which is more pronounced for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the degree of reduction of vanadium species, leading to higher propene selectivity. However, the degree of reduction is not the only factor; the nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Catalyst deactivation and stability challenges can be mitigated by optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reduces propane and oxygen conversion, and lowers CO2 yield, as evidenced by its effect on molybdenum reduction and catalyst selectivity (Quote 2, 3, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Research directions should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's addition to NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixtures decreases propane conversion but significantly boosts propylene selectivity, indicating its role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, revealing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, formed by dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which minimizes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating and full restoration with oxygen reoxidation are viable strategies. Research should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to reduce vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and controlling catalyst reduction, thus inhibiting non-selective oxygen species and regulating oxidation state. Its dissociated oxygen specifically oxidizes propane to propene, and adjusting N2O concentration can optimize selectivity, offering a strategy for catalytic reaction improvement.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over various catalysts, including iron zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Slower VOx reoxidation with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx site activity for propene oxidation rises with agglomeration. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, mitigated by N2O. Research indicates N2O forms fewer non-lattice oxygen species than O2, impacting COx formation. Further investigation is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation. Prior studies on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP showed N2O achieved 80% propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion, versus 50% with O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP showcases superior performance, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Its monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation are pivotal. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly diminishes propene yield, varying among Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta being most susceptible. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is imperative to tackle deactivation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity (Quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke buildup (Quote [2]) limits its practicality. Advanced research, including in situ spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions (Quote [6]), is essential to understand deactivation and regeneration mechanisms, ensuring catalyst reusability and effectiveness. Characterization methods like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption are crucial for assessing catalyst reversibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and enhanced propylene selectivity. Steam-activated iron zeolites are effective catalysts, achieving high propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing stable catalyst formulations, optimizing reaction conditions, and employing in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrate regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this greenhouse gas effectively. Iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts show improved propylene yield with N2O over oxygen. However, rapid deactivation, often due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is crucial for developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms, making N2O-ODHP a viable option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalytic sites, promoting selectivity. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that induce ODHP. Pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O inhibits non-selective sites and synergizes with O2 to modulate catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity. Challenges include catalyst stability and deactivation, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing 1-2 lattice oxygen. More oxygen species favor waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen contributes to COx formation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke formation deactivates the catalyst, rapidly reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, deteriorating performance. Strategies include optimizing temperature to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen with nickel molybdate catalysts, which improve yield and selectivity, reduce oxygen consumption, and lower CO2 production. High N2O levels decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations can modulate catalyst oxidation state, enhancing performance. Further research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity vs. dioxygen, avoiding CO/CO2 over-oxidation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts ([3]). Catalyst deactivation ([5]) and coke deposition ([8]) are major hurdles. Research should target improving stability and reducing coke to extend catalyst life, advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over decomposition, as its activation is less favorable than O2. High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species on the support, optimizing active lattice oxygen for selective oxidation. This optimization, facilitated by N2O, controls reactions effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but favors propylene formation by spatially separating active oxygen in VOx species. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propylene over combustion reactions, highlighting N2O's role in enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity, with N2O yielding less COx formation and higher propene selectivity. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain challenges, highlighting the need for advanced research to make N2O-ODHP a viable practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, compared to oxygen (O2). This is attributed to N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species, which results in higher propylene selectivity and reduced consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5 exhibit this effect more prominently. The degree of reduction of VOx species is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower ODP activity compared to O2 presents a challenge. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing catalyst structure for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, as evidenced by its ability to promote molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4 for enhanced selectivity (Quote 2, 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to overcome these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for activity. The TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation, highlighting the importance of steam activation for high catalytic activities. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation resistance, potentially improving N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by gently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, noted in [3] and [5], is mainly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as in [8], partially revives activity, needing oxygen for full restoration. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, thus controlling oxidation state and inhibiting non-selective oxygen species. Its dissociation yields selective O for propane oxidation to propene. Concentration adjustments of N2O can modulate selectivity, offering a practical strategy. Catalysts in a reduced state due to N2O presence optimize ODHP efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation, especially with increased agglomerization, leading to a drop in propene selectivity when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, though N2O mitigates this. Research indicates that O2 forms additional oxygen species, unlike N2O, contributing to COx formation. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, necessitating further investigation. EPR spectroscopy studies aim to identify these species, focusing on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. N2O achieves higher propene selectivity (80%) than O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high initial propene production, comparable to top-performing V and Mo-based catalysts, thanks to Fe-zeolites' capability to coordinate reactive oxygen from N2O. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta zeolites deactivating fastest. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying sensitivity of active sites to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms, complementing TEOM's detailed coke formation insights but lacking surface-level analysis. Research gaps include in situ N2O-ODHP studies over iron zeolites and the reusability of regenerated catalysts, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions. Iron impurities in steamed commercial H-ZSM-5 zeolites have been found to induce high propylene selectivity, highlighting the importance of acidity in the reaction. Further research is required to enhance catalyst stability, explore alternative iron sources, and design catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, as highlighted in research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At >300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute, albeit less effectively than O2. Pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes selectivity by modulating catalyst oxidation state. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and further tuned by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Reduced steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen for selective propane oxidation. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen favor waste products. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency stems from its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate this by slowing deactivation and increasing N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O, and small additions decrease C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include temperature optimization, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less susceptible catalysts, and developing cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, outperforms molecular oxygen in propylene selectivity, enhancing nickel molybdate catalysts' performance at low concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates catalyst oxidation state, improving efficiency. Higher concentrations, however, decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, necessitating advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation ([2]), with iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, as superior catalysts after calcination ([3], [4]). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role ([5], [6]), and complex deactivation mechanisms ([7]) hinder N2O-ODHP. Effective coke prevention and extended catalyst lifetime are needed ([8]), highlighting the necessity for advanced research to enhance practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing active sites and favoring propene over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species boost selectivity, while N2O optimizes oxygen concentration for controlled oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability pose challenges, requiring advanced research for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane oxidation and propene over-oxidation due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This aligns with reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation. Despite lower catalytic activity, propene selectivity is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles lack ODHP selectivity with O2, underscoring N2O's unique benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. This improvement is attributed to the nature of oxygen species from N2O, which reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, thus boosting selectivity. However, catalyst stability and deactivation remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation. Studies over VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 materials confirm the significant increase in propene selectivity with N2O, suggesting that the degree of catalyst reduction and the nature of oxygen species play key roles in the reaction mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. N2O's lower oxidizing ability tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, leading to spatial separation of active lattice oxygen species and reducing the surface density of active oxygen species, an effect more pronounced for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, requiring strategies such as advanced catalyst design and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Strategies to address these limitations could involve further research to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased selectivity and reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide catalysts are used, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and exploring new catalysts for higher activity and selectivity. Research should focus on improving stability and reducing deactivation rates for feasible N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, are generated by steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing insights into coking. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination can lead to coke reaction, forming COx, partially regenerating the catalyst. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition show increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which reduces carbon oxide production. This mechanism boosts propene yield due to slower reoxidation. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, is a critical challenge. High-temperature regeneration under N2O can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration methods to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its oxygen dissociates to oxidize propane to propene, improving selectivity over other oxidants by managing catalyst oxidation and restricting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability for practical ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Slower VOx species reoxidation with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene to COx conversion. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and decreased selectivity with V2O5 nanocrystallites. Research is needed to understand oxygen species from O2 and N2O, aiming to enhance catalyst performance and practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role in ODHP showcases superior propylene selectivity, with Fe-zeolites matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, achieving 24% initial yields. N2O's monooxygen donation and Fe-zeolites' coordination of reactive oxygen species are pivotal. However, coke-induced deactivation, varying among Fe-zeolites with Fe-beta being most susceptible, poses a significant challenge. Advanced research is imperative to address deactivation mechanisms, ensuring N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, affecting propylene yield (Quote 2). While TEOM with GC analysis offers insights into coking and deactivation, it lacks detail on surface-level mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation (Quote 7). Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability after regeneration are needed, as these areas remain underexplored (Quote 9). Characterization techniques like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption can assess catalyst reversibility post-regeneration (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and improved propylene selectivity. Iron zeolites, notably steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve high propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation is a major challenge. Research is needed to develop stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke, and explore in situ regeneration. Advanced iron sources and incorporation methods, along with catalysts resistant to deactivation, are key areas for further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts selectivity, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Research is needed to develop stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and engineer catalysts resistant to deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by operating in a reduced state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O isn't suitable for ODHP as it necessitates O2 for catalyst regeneration; without O2, catalysts deactivate swiftly due to excessive carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP. [2] [3] [5] [17] [19]", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is boosted by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 materials with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant, due to its lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx formation. Oxygen species from N2O influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 boosts propene yields, thanks to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, such as 773 K, mitigate this by slowing deactivation and enhancing N2O conversion. O2 addition significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production and deteriorating performance. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less susceptible catalysts, and developing cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen in nickel molybdate-catalyzed reactions where it increases propylene yield, reduces oxygen consumption, and minimizes CO2 production. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate catalyst oxidation states, addressing stability and deactivation issues. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5 post-calcination, are efficient catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle, compounded by propane's influence on N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is intricate, lacking methods to prevent coke buildup and prolong catalyst life. Research priorities should include deactivation insights, stable catalyst development, and condition optimization to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by less favorable decomposition compared to O2, reducing active sites and boosting propene formation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support achieve high selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, crucial for propane and propene activation, is better achieved with N2O, controlling selective oxidation and combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that curbs direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This effect is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion reactions. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. The improved selectivity is also linked to N2O's ability to minimize direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, which is influenced by the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O. Studies over VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 materials confirm that replacing O2 with N2O significantly increases propene selectivity, with the most notable improvements observed for catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species. The higher degree of catalyst reduction in the presence of N2O is a key factor in this performance enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to a higher degree of VOx species reduction, crucial for high propylene yield. N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, enhancing selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization degree influences consecutive propene oxidation. Primary C3H6 selectivity is higher with N2O, and consecutive C3H6 oxidation to COx is reduced. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, requiring strategies to control active oxygen species and optimize conditions for selective species formation. Advanced research is essential to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, as evidenced by a study showing increased selectivity to propylene and reduced CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction and enhancing selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research directions could focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, as suggested by studies showing similar effects of -Sb2O4 and N2O on selectivity modulation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 shows high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique correlates activity with deactivation by measuring real-time mass changes. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and reducing deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which minimizes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating aids catalyst recovery, but full activity restoration requires oxygen reoxidation. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    