Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption, promoting catalyst reduction, and controlling oxidation states, as it inhibits non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O specifically oxidizes propane to propene, and adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, a strategy to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP a research-intensive process for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over O2, as evidenced across diverse catalysts. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization's effect on propene oxidation and the need to understand oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O. Research on VOx/MCM-41 reveals that N2O halves propane conversion's turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity to 80% at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is proposed to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves high propene yields, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Its efficacy is attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke, particularly in Fe-beta, is a significant challenge. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species in zeolites coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation and reduced propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research, particularly in situ spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions, is essential to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst regeneration. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quote [7]). Research on selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability is lacking, requiring further investigation (Quote [9], Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, but steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites. Further research is needed to optimize catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation and maintain activity, potentially enhancing N2O-ODHP's industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, effectively utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Iron-based zeolites and redox metals, like vanadium, enhance propylene yield when N2O replaces oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, as evidenced by increased yields and selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, supplying less oxidizing oxygen species that favor ODHP. However, pure N2O use is unadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by adjusting their oxidation state during ODHP. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and adjustable with N2O. Propene selectivity benefits from N2O's reduced reoxidation ability, as it less effectively reoxidizes catalysts compared to O2. Reduced lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propene over COx, requiring only 1-2 oxygen atoms. Active sites with >2 oxygen atoms favor CO and CO2 formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, whereas polyatomic oxygen is involved in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at high temperatures, attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge, mitigated by higher temperatures, which slow deactivation and enhance N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower propene and decreases selectivity, negatively impacting intermediates essential for propene production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and developing coke-resistant catalysts and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less susceptible catalysts, and developing cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, outperforming molecular oxygen, and optimizes nickel molybdate catalysts for higher yield. Adjusting N2O concentration mitigates catalyst deactivation, yet advanced research is imperative to enhance stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation and coke deposition hinder practical implementation. Addressing deactivation mechanisms and developing stable catalysts could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation, as seen by the increased selectivity over propane conversion. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, essential for selective oxidation, is more effective with N2O than O2. High propene selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species on the support, avoiding non-selective oxidation reactions, as indicated by the high selectivity achieved under these conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 by curbing over-oxidation of propane and propylene. This stems from N2O's milder oxidizing strength, which lessens the surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation at lower densities. Propene selectivity stays consistent across VOx species with N2O, unlike with O2, due to its ability to inhibit direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Advanced research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, particularly for catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for the practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to its role in reducing VOx species, which is crucial for high selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability results in lower ODP activity but higher propylene selectivity compared to O2. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization influences propene oxidation. N2O mitigates catalyst deactivation by reducing nonselective oxygen species. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation requires optimizing structure, developing regeneration methods, and exploring oxidants. Further research is needed on oxygen species' role in selectivity and developing catalysts for N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity (Quote 2) by reducing molybdenum (Quote 7), but may lower propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 6). Advanced research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke. Steam activation generates extraframework iron species responsible for propane oxydehydrogenation with N2O. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity and reduces carbon oxides, thanks to its unique reoxidation mechanism without peroxovanadate formation. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity can be restored by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should concentrate on enhancing catalyst stability and developing efficient regeneration methods to prevent vanadium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, which prevents non-selective oxygen species formation and selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration offers a strategy to optimize selectivity for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts [1]. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx [3]. Selectivity remains high until vanadium surface concentration exceeds monolayer coverage, causing direct propane oxidation, an effect mitigated by N2O [8]. N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation [9]. EPR spectroscopy research aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 catalysts [11]. N2O achieved 80% propene selectivity versus O2's 50% at 10% propane conversion [14]. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP achieves high propene yields of 24% at elevated temperatures, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts, using steam-activated Fe-zeolites. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is linked to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, limits propene yield. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is crucial to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to its specificity as a mono-oxygen donor, enhancing propane dehydrogenation by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced research is essential to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability. In situ techniques, such as FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC, are crucial for monitoring coke formation and catalyst evolution under process conditions, offering insights into surface interactions and reversibility (Quotes 7 and 8). Detailed studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst regeneration effectiveness are needed areas of exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants, as reported by independent studies. Steam-activated iron zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, as seen in iron zeolites' rapid deactivation. Strategies to address these limitations include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Research is needed to improve catalyst deactivation resistance and integrate process designs for catalyst regeneration, as indicated by the slower deactivation of steam-activated zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Replacing O2 with N2O enhances propylene yield, particularly with Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid deactivation, mainly due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and optimized conditions, making N2O-ODHP a promising yet challenging option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield, as evidenced by the addition of 300 ppm N2O. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, playing a less oxidizing role than O2 but still contributing to ODHP. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst regeneration in the presence of N2O, as seen when the catalyst shows a high amount of carbon in the absence of O2. These findings suggest that N2O's role is to inhibit non-selective sites, and the presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced by fully covering supports with VOx species and using N2O due to its lower reoxidation ability. Reduced steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields due to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite's capability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, rapid deactivation from coke formation is a critical challenge. Higher temperatures mitigate this issue, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene compared to N2O, and small additions decrease propene selectivity and increase COx. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore mechanisms of coke formation and identify active sites less prone to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic performance, especially with nickel molybdate catalysts, increasing propylene yield and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. However, high N2O levels decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations can improve catalysts' oxidation state. Research on catalyst deactivation and stability is lacking, necessitating further investigation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, mitigating over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Fe-ZSM-5, a catalyst, excels after severe calcination, demonstrating superior performance. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on N2O conversion, poses a significant challenge. Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation and enhance catalyst longevity, paving the way for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane combustion. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, a key strategy for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its milder oxidizing strength. This trait reduces the surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities. Propene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O significantly curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, thus improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O promoting a higher degree of vanadium site reduction, which correlates with selectivity. Advanced research is crucial to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts on alumina and silica, as it reduces the reoxidation of VOx species, leading to lower activity but higher selectivity. The degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation, with N2O minimizing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze propene to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major hurdles, necessitating strategies to control the surface density of active oxygen species and optimize conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is crucial to understand oxygen species mechanisms and develop new catalysts for sustained high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and reduces CO2 yield, as studies with NiMoO4, -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides show. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA) achieves initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, with higher initial propene yields than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. TEOM analysis reveals faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure, while MFI catalysts show slower deactivation, possibly due to their structure. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for high activity. Ex-FeZSM-5's mesopores may reduce coke blocking and improve transport, slowing deactivation. Ex-FeZSM-5's higher activity in N2O decomposition suggests increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which reduces propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial regeneration is achievable with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should concentrate on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen oxidizes propane to propene, reducing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting promoter concentration optimizes selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts compared to O2, due to slower reoxidation of VOx species, which limits active lattice oxygen sites and curbs propene oxidation to COx. VOx agglomerization boosts propene oxidation, yet selectivity remains high with low vanadium surface concentration. Selectivity drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, but this effect is less severe with N2O. Oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, highlighting the need for research on oxygen species from O2 and N2O for VOx reoxidation. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit higher propene selectivity with N2O (80%) versus O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP achieves high propene selectivity, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, with steam-activated Fe-zeolites yielding 24%. N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen in zeolites enhance dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly diminishes propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is imperative to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, boosting iron zeolites' performance (Quote [1]). However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy, complemented by TEOMGC, is crucial for understanding coke deactivation and catalyst regeneration in C3H8 + N2O reactions (Quote [6]). This technique monitors carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, essential for ODHP comprehension (Quote [7]). Research gaps exist in in situ investigations of N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability (Quote [9], [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene production at lower temperatures compared to conventional oxidants, as evidenced by recent studies. Iron zeolites, notably steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge. Research indicates slower deactivation over steam-activated zeolites, suggesting strategies to enhance catalyst stability and optimize reaction conditions for practical implementation are necessary.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP utilizes its greenhouse gas status for environmental benefit, notably enhancing propylene selectivity with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid deactivation, often due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is vital to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting non-selective sites and moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, as evidenced by its ability to increase propylene yield and selectivity (Quote [2]). At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, contributing to ODHP less oxidatively than O2 (Quote [5]). However, pure N2O use is unadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation and excessive carbon formation, highlighting O2's critical role in catalyst regeneration (Quote [17]). N2O's synergy with O2 modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity (Quote [19]), underscoring the need for advanced research to address limitations for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is optimized by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and tuned by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Atomic oxygen species from N2O promote selective propane oxidation to propene, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane ODHP using FeZSM-5 yields 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, rapid deactivation from coke formation limits propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate deactivation by boosting N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) and degrades FeZSM-5's performance by reducing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. Strategies to address deactivation involve temperature optimization and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying catalysts less prone to deactivation, aiming for a continuous propylene production process through reaction-regeneration cycles. Purifying N2O from tail-gases could provide a cost-effective, pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, initially boosting yield and reducing CO2, but high concentrations decrease selectivity and cause carbonaceous products. Adjusting N2O concentration optimizes catalyst performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, addressing challenges in deactivation and stability. Advanced research is needed for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a common issue with dioxygen [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, particularly after calcination [4]. However, catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion [5][6]. The unclear deactivation mechanism lacks strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime [7][8]. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, as per quote [1] and [2]. Well-dispersed vanadia species, as mentioned in quote [3], enhance propene selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved by using N2O (quote [4]), effectively controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This is attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential, reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species and favoring selective propene formation. Despite lower catalytic activity, propene selectivity is consistent across VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles lack selectivity with O2, highlighting N2O's benefits. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP by reducing the re-oxidation of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and up to three times greater selectivity compared to O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This improvement is attributed to N2O's lower ability to re-oxidize reduced VOx species, enhancing initial propene selectivity. Direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are minimized in the presence of N2O. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts compared to O2, due to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is critical for high selectivity. However, N2O leads to lower ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species contributes to lower activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, particularly in maintaining the reduction degree of vanadium species and preventing nonselective oxygen species. Strategies include developing catalysts with controlled active oxygen species density and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species. Advanced research is needed to define oxygen species from O2 and N2O over reduced VOx species, understand formation mechanisms, and create catalysts that sustain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide exhibit enhanced performance with N2O, promoting molybdenum reduction and selectivity (Quotes 5, 6, 7, 10). However, catalyst deactivation and stability pose significant challenges for practical application. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and minimizing deactivation, potentially through optimizing reaction conditions or employing more stable catalysts. For instance, adding N2O to NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 slightly decreases propane conversion but significantly increases propylene selectivity, indicating its role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, measures real-time mass changes during gas-solid reactions, correlating activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by gently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as noted in literature. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. High-temperature N2O regeneration can partially restore activity, with full recovery requiring oxygen, suggesting research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and minimizing vanadium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting promoter concentration offers a strategy to modulate selectivity, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, as observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. The advantage stems from slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to reduced active lattice oxygen and suppressed conversion of propene to COx. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. Prior studies on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP show higher propene selectivity with N2O (80% vs. 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identifies oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, highlighting the need for further research to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation of VOx.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, matches V and Mo-based catalysts' propylene yields due to its monooxygen donation and reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, hinders performance. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's mono-oxygen donor role in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation (Quote 1). However, coke formation limits catalyst stability and propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced research, particularly in situ FTIR spectroscopy, is crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms and monitoring carbonaceous deposits (Quote 7). Studies on selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking (Quotes 9 and 10), underscoring the need for further investigation to address these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants, with steamed Fe-ZSM-5 iron zeolites showing superior performance (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation (Quote 6), is a significant challenge. Research is needed to optimize catalyst formulations and reaction conditions for practical implementation, focusing on enhancing catalyst stability and developing integrated process designs to fully leverage N2O in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Using N2O instead of oxygen significantly increases propylene yield, especially with Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, as evidenced by decreased propane and oxygen conversion and increased propylene yield (quote [2]). At elevated concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still facilitate ODHP (quote [5]). However, using pure N2O is unadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (quote [17]). The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes the catalyst's oxidation state, improving selectivity (quote [19]). Further research is imperative to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species reduction. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 enhances selectivity, further optimized by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are key for selective oxidation, contrasting with polyatomic species that contribute to COx formation. This highlights N2O's role in selectivity enhancement and underscores the need for advanced research to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 achieves up to 25% propene yield at 723 K, outperforming O2 due to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) than N2O and decreases C3H6 selectivity, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify less deactivating active sites. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation by providing a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and catalyst performance by optimizing propane conversion, propylene yield, and selectivity. It reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations, but high levels decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Modulating N2O concentration can improve catalyst performance by adjusting the oxidation state. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, exacerbated by propane's influence on N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism and lack of methods to prevent coke deposition are critical issues. Research into these areas could improve N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites, favoring propene formation over propane conversion (Quotes 1, 2). Well-dispersed vanadia species achieve high selectivity (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation (Quote 4). Catalyst deactivation and stability challenges require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This optimizes propene formation but reduces catalytic activity. Propene selectivity is consistent across VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2 where selectivity drops. Further research is needed to address N2O's catalytic activity limitations for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2 by limiting re-oxidation of reduced VOx species, thus increasing catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O differently influence selectivity and activity, involving complex reaction pathways. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation. As demonstrated in recent studies, the improved ODP performance with N2O is attributed to its lower ability to re-oxidize reduced VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction compared to O2. This results in a significant increase in propene selectivity, especially for vanadium oxides with bulk-like V2O5 species. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a crucial role in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation, affecting the overall catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, due to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been employed, with the degree of polymerization of VOx species influencing their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges. Strategies focus on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research aims to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity (Quote 3, 7). N2O and -Sb2O4 both control selectivity, inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 8). Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, requiring strategies like developing stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. A major issue is deactivation by coke, causing a rapid decrease in propene yield. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The nature of extraframework iron species and the zeolite structure influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance may relate to its iron constitution and porous structure. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, unlike O2, which increases carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Partial activity can be restored through high-temperature N2O regeneration, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. Its dissociated O oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can improve selectivity, aiding catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based materials, as observed in studies [1,2]. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, compared to O2, reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx [3]. Propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops sharply with V2O5 nanocrystallites, with N2O mitigating this effect [8]. A previous study on VOx/MCM-41 showed a propane conversion turnover frequency halved with N2O, but propene selectivity increased from 50% with O2 to 80% with N2O at 10% propane conversion [14]. Advanced research is needed to overcome catalyst limitations and understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) with Fe-zeolites, achieving 24% propene yield, on par with top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior indicates varying coke sensitivity among active iron sites, pointing to complex deactivation processes involving reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency (Quote [1]), but catalyst deactivation by coke (Quote [2]) limits propylene yield. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation and regeneration (Quote [6]). Despite TEOM and GC analysis, detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking (Quote [9]), as is research on catalyst reusability after regeneration (Quote [10]). Advanced research is essential to address these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites, achieving up to 22% yield with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Strategies include alternative iron sources, enhanced deactivation resistance, and integrated process designs with regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. It enhances yield, especially with iron zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 leads, but coke-induced deactivation hinders N2O's practicality. Research must focus on stable catalysts and deactivation mechanisms for viable processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), operating catalytic sites in a more reduced state and increasing propylene yield while decreasing propane and oxygen conversion. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, further promoting ODHP. However, pure N2O causes catalyst deactivation due to high carbon formation, underscoring the need for molecular oxygen for regeneration. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity. Future research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding N2O's precise role in ODHP to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity compared to O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration aids propene production over COx, requiring 1-2 oxygen atoms. Active sites with >2 oxygen atoms favor waste products. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance; atomic oxygen aids selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen contributes to COx formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this by slowing deactivation and increasing N2O conversion. O2 addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and boosts COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming to enhance practical implementation by providing a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity and yield, optimizing catalyst performance by modulating oxidation states. Higher N2O concentrations, however, decrease selectivity and increase carbonaceous products. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity versus dioxygen, which often leads to over-oxidation. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's effect on N2O conversion, is a significant hurdle. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could improve N2O-ODHP's practicality, addressing limitations for real-world use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, as evidenced by quotes 1 and 2. High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (quote 3). Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen (quote 4) controls selective oxidation and combustion, improving selectivity. Replacing O2 with N2O optimizes this concentration, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its milder oxidizing strength diminishes catalytic activity by less efficiently re-oxidizing surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is uniform between VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage lies in lowering the surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, attributed to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly evident with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation. The degree of reduction of vanadium sites and the nature of oxygen species are critical factors affecting propene selectivity and consecutive oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over vanadia catalysts due to its lower oxidizing ability, which enhances the reduction degree of VOx species and suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, improving selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 demonstrate that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by optimizing catalyst structure and composition. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation and developing catalysts that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide are pivotal, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity. Challenges, such as catalyst deactivation and stability, hinder practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and exploring N2O's role in inhibiting oxygen adsorption and controlling selectivity, as suggested by its effectiveness in reducing Mo oxidation state and enhancing propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 shows significant resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, with initial propene yields markedly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is critical for high catalytic activities, and the more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition exhibit increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction as noted in [3] and [5], is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as seen in [8], partially restores activity, suggesting strategies to overcome limitations. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by curtailing O2 adsorption and sustaining a reduced catalyst state, which limits non-selective oxygen species and controls oxidation rate. Its oxygen specifically oxidizes propane to propene, showcasing superior selectivity. Adjusting promoter concentration optimizes selectivity, offering a strategy to refine the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, outperforming O2. Kinetic analysis reveals slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high for isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Prior studies on VOx/MCM-41 showed a propane conversion turnover frequency halving with N2O, yet propene selectivity increased to 80% from 50% at 10% propane conversion. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, as highlighted by EPR spectroscopy identifying reactive oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP achieves high propylene selectivity, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, with initial yields of 24% using Fe-zeolites. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation challenges catalyst stability, rapidly diminishing propene yield, though regeneration in pure oxygen can restore activity. Deactivation rates vary, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is crucial for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding ODHP (Quote [6]). Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating further research for practical implementation (Quote [9]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 achieves a 22% propylene yield, outperforming other methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam-activated zeolites show slower deactivation, suggesting the importance of minimizing acidity to reduce coke formation. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP utilizes its greenhouse gas status for environmental gain, boosting propylene selectivity, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. Iron-based Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts excel in propylene yield. However, rapid deactivation, often due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalytic sites, promoting selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that moderately induce ODHP. However, using pure N2O is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, explaining improved selectivity in ODHP. Research should focus on developing catalysts that maintain activity in N2O-rich environments and understanding the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be adjusted using N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity by reducing active lattice oxygen, favoring propane oxidation to propene over COx. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen contributes to COx formation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's unique monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen in FeZSM-5 boost propylene selectivity in propane ODHP, but coke formation causes catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, notably at 773 K, mitigate deactivation. O2 yields lower C3H6 and increases COx compared to N2O. Strategies include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less deactivating active sites, and cost-effective N2O sources through selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen. Nickel molybdate catalysts, when doped with N2O, enhance catalytic performance and propylene yield. Adjusting promoter concentrations modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving stability and addressing deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts, especially after severe calcination (Quotes [3] and [4]). However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion (Quotes [5] and [6]). The unclear deactivation mechanism (Quote [7]) and lack of strategies to prevent coke deposition (Quote [8]) limit catalyst lifetime. Advanced research into deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation, as replacing O2 with N2O decreases overall activity while increasing selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for high selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, making it a promising oxidant. Research must address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over O2 by inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This mechanism reduces catalytic activity but favors propylene formation by lowering the surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, promoting selective propylene production over combustion. Research is imperative to enhance catalyst stability and overcome deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, by limiting the re-oxidation of reduced VOx species and promoting higher catalyst reduction, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is due to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. As a result, direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are reduced, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene formation over COx. However, catalyst stability and deactivation remain critical challenges, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity compared to O2, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity. A key advantage is that N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which catalyze nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 demonstrate that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. The lower reoxidation ability of N2O for VOx species is responsible for lower ODP activity but higher propene selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, as per Quote 2. Key catalysts include NiMoO4, -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Challenges involve decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quotes 5, 6). Research should target improving catalyst stability and selectivity, possibly through new catalyst development or optimized reaction conditions. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, akin to -Sb2O4 (Quotes 8, 12), suggests synergistic effects in mixed catalysts, offering potential for advanced catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The nature of these species, the zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance may relate to its porous structure and mesopores, reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to coke reaction and COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a critical issue. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, but full recovery necessitates oxygen. Research should concentrate on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing effective regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by restricting O2 adsorption, promoting a reduced catalyst state, and directly oxidizing propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration offers a strategy to address catalyst deactivation and stability, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. The mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and minimizing propylene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomeration, and selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Studies suggest additional oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Prior research on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP showed a propane conversion turnover frequency halving with N2O compared to O2, yet propene selectivity rose to 80% vs. 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. Further research aims to identify oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 using EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP achieves high propylene selectivity, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, due to Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation challenges catalyst stability, with Fe-beta showing the fastest deactivation rate. Research indicates varying coke sensitivity across iron sites in FeZSM-5, highlighting the need for advanced research to enhance catalyst stability and practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, as per quote 1. However, coke deposition on iron zeolites, as mentioned in quote 2, leads to rapid deactivation. In situ FTIR spectroscopy, suggested in quote 6 and 7, is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding hydrocarbon conversion. Detailed in situ studies on N2O oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability, as noted in quote 9 and 10, are needed to address current research gaps.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites have shown higher propylene yields, and steaming reduces deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites. Further research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Replacing oxygen with N2O, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts, significantly increases propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, ensuring robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by operating in a reduced state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that can still induce ODHP. However, using pure N2O is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state during ODHP, as evidenced by improved selectivity and conversion rates. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is optimized on V/g-Al2O3 with well-dispersed VOx and further adjusted by N2O. Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O enhances propene selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species promote selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, highlighting the need for research to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 catalysts excels, achieving high propene yields due to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms in zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at higher temperatures due to higher N2O conversion. Oxygen's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and enhancing regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, particularly at low concentrations, by modulating catalyst oxidation states. This enhances performance and tackles stability and deactivation issues. Advanced research is essential to optimize N2O concentration, improving propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, making N2O-ODHP industrially viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2 (Quote 2). Iron-zeolite catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective, with calcination boosting performance (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, influenced by propane's presence (Quotes 5, 6, 7). Addressing deactivation mechanisms and improving stability (Quote 8) are crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and favoring propene over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that curbs direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, linked to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. Direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are notably reduced in the presence of N2O, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from N2O and O2 plays a critical role in selectivity and activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, highlighting the need for advanced research to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts compared to O2, due to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower reoxidation ability of N2O reduces nonselective consecutive propene oxidation, despite leading to lower ODP activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges. Strategies focus on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations in catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, and promotes molybdenum reduction for enhanced catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, indicating potential limitations. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts like -Sb2O4, which, similar to N2O, controls selectivity and inhibits non-selective sites. Adding 300 ppm N2O leads to increased propylene selectivity and reduced CO2 yield, while molybdenum in NiMoO4 works in a slightly more reduced state, improving selectivity. However, propane conversion decreases, suggesting the need for advanced catalysts and conditions to overcome these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. The TEOM technique reveals the impact of zeolite structure on deactivation rates, correlating activity and deactivation. Steam activation and iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and resistance to coke, focusing on Fe-zeolite structures and N2O activation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a critical challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2 (Quote [1]). Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits the concentration of active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (Quote [3]). Challenges arise from VOx sites' increased activity for propene oxidation with agglomerization, leading to a significant drop in selectivity when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, although N2O mitigates this effect (Quote [8]). Other oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O (Quote [9]). Advanced research is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieves high initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying sensitivity of active iron sites to coke, indicating complex deactivation processes involving reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation, affecting propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced techniques like in situ FTIR spectroscopy are vital for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding deactivation mechanisms (Quote 7). Despite these tools, the surface-level deactivation mechanism remains unclear, and in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking. Research is needed to address catalyst reusability and improve understanding of the reaction under true process conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 achieving up to 22% yield (Quote 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, as observed in steam-activated zeolites, and integrate regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, effectively utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Replacing oxygen with N2O, especially with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts, significantly increases propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, often due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires research to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O's addition to ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by promoting a reduced state in catalytic sites, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At over 300 ppm, N2O's dissociation products participate in the reaction, suggesting its less oxidative role in ODHP compared to O2. However, using pure N2O is unadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst regeneration in the presence of N2O, preventing quick deactivation. These insights underscore the need for advanced research to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical use, focusing on catalyst stability and the synergistic effects of N2O and O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced on V/g-Al2O3 with well-dispersed VOx and optimized by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, considering the role of atomic vs. polyatomic oxygen species in selective oxidation and COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) using FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen in the zeolite. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, such as 773 K, mitigate deactivation. O2 yields much lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O, and small additions decrease C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic performance, reducing oxygen needs and CO2. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O optimizes catalysts' oxidation state, improving efficiency. However, catalyst deactivation and stability issues limit practical use, requiring advanced research for viable implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as noted in Quote 2. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5 (Quote 3), are effective catalysts (Quote 4), but face challenges with deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion (Quote 6). Understanding deactivation mechanisms (Quote 7) and preventing coke deposition (Quote 8) are critical for improving catalyst stability and lifetime. Advanced research is essential to optimize conditions and develop more stable catalysts, addressing limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by lowering active site concentration and favoring propene formation, as per quotes [1] and [2]. Optimizing lattice oxygen with N2O, as in quote [4], controls selective oxidation. High propene selectivity is achieved by fully covering the support with well-dispersed vanadia species, per quote [3]. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms O2 in ODHP by boosting propylene selectivity at similar propane conversion rates. Its milder oxidizing strength limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, albeit with reduced catalytic activity due to less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is uniform across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity with nanoparticles. N2O's effectiveness is attributed to lowering surface oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, as evidenced in studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. The improved performance is particularly pronounced with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. The nature of oxygen species from N2O plays a crucial role in minimizing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, thereby improving initial propene selectivity. Compared to O2, N2O drastically reduces direct C3H8 oxidation to CO and CO2, as well as consecutive C3H6 oxidation to COx, which is linked to the degree of reduction of vanadium sites. The difference in catalytic performance between O2 and N2O is partially due to the nature of active oxygen species, with N2O's oxygen species being pivotal in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts compared to O2, due to its ability to reduce VOx species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for the ODP reaction over certain catalysts. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, and promotes molybdenum reduction for enhanced catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and activity, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts to mitigate deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical. Specifically, the addition of 300 ppm N2O to the feed with NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 catalysts leads to a slight decrease in propane conversion but significantly increases propylene selectivity, while also reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. For pure NiMoO4, N2O addition decreases propane conversion but increases propylene selectivity substantially. The role of -Sb2O4 and N2O seems to control the selectivity of NiMoO4, inhibiting non-selective sites and facilitating molybdenum reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its more open structure that reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation, suggesting potential strategies for catalyst improvement. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and reducing deactivation to make N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by inhibiting peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation, as evidenced in literature [1,2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle [3,5]. Regeneration under N2O at elevated temperatures can partially restore activity [8], but full recovery requires oxygen. Research priorities should include enhancing catalyst stability, mitigating vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its dissociation yields O, which oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration optimizes selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation rises with agglomeration, yet selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters. Selectivity drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Research indicates that other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Advanced studies on the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 are crucial for enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP showcases superior propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves a decrease in active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation from coke buildup, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability (Quote 9-10). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed to monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface acidity changes, crucial for understanding deactivation (Quote 6-7). Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, highlighting a research gap (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by iron zeolites achieving over 20% propylene yield at 643-773 K (Quote 4, 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites that catalyze coke formation (Quote 20). Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Understanding the role of acidity and iron impurities is crucial for improving catalyst performance and selectivity (Quote 22).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts, but faces challenges in catalyst stability due to coke formation. Advanced research is essential to enhance catalyst durability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that still induce ODHP. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst regeneration in the presence of N2O, preventing quick deactivation. N2O's role includes inhibiting non-selective sites, and in conjunction with O2, it modulates the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and N2O's lower reoxidation ability boost propene selectivity. N2O's reduced reoxidation of VOx sites vs O2 increases propene yield. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic species contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to high N2O conversion. O2 significantly lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, initially lowering propane conversion but increasing propylene yield. Higher N2O concentrations decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentration modulates catalyst oxidation state, enhancing performance and addressing stability and deactivation issues, a critical research area for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, particularly after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation and the intricate conversion of N2O in the presence of propane are major hurdles. The deactivation mechanism and coke deposition limit catalyst lifetime. Advanced research is crucial to overcome these limitations and improve N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by unfavorably decomposing compared to O2, reducing active sites and enhancing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support further improve selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its milder oxidizing strength decreases surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles exhibit no selectivity variance with N2O, unlike with O2, as observed in V/MCM-41 catalysts, highlighting N2O's unique role in enhancing propylene yield and the need for advanced catalyst stability research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. N2O significantly curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering a more favorable reaction pathway. However, catalyst stability and deactivation remain critical challenges, highlighting the need for advanced research to optimize vanadium species reduction and control oxygen species for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, particularly on alumina and silica supports, due to its ability to reduce VOx species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, reducing consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, requiring strategies to control the surface density of active oxygen species and optimize conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, slightly reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction under N2O enhances selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical implementation. Strategies focus on developing stable catalysts with high activity and selectivity, optimizing reaction conditions. Adding 300 ppm N2O to NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 increases propylene selectivity, while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Under N2O, molybdenum in NiMoO4 works in a more reduced state, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA) offers high initial propylene yields, with FeZSM-5 showing superior resistance to deactivation compared to FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, influence deactivation behavior. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's enhanced deactivation resistance may be attributed to its iron constitution and porous structure, with mesopores reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition might have greater resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, particularly the role of atomic oxygen in coke removal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike other oxidants. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods, as indicated by the effectiveness of N2O in reoxidizing vanadium species without peroxovanadate formation and the role of vanadium reduction in catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, leading to a more reduced state for catalytic sites. This inhibits non-selective oxygen species and regulates catalyst oxidation. Adjusting promoter concentration optimizes selectivity, a critical strategy for improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, outperforming O2. The mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. N2O halves propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, focusing on the nature and structure of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41, using EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP achieves 24% propene yield, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites, due to N2O's monooxygen donation, efficiently dehydrogenate propane. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than other Fe-zeolites. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). In situ techniques, like FTIR spectroscopy, are crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms and regeneration in C3H8 + N2O reactions (Quote 6). Detailed studies on catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating advanced research to ensure catalyst stability and practical implementation of N2O-ODHP (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts achieving significant propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Research is needed to optimize reaction conditions, develop more stable catalyst formulations, and integrate regeneration steps to mitigate deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts, where Fe-ZSM-5 excels. However, catalysts often deactivate due to coke formation, hindering N2O's practicality. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts with enhanced coke resistance, as understanding deactivation mechanisms is crucial.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, as it promotes a more reduced and selective state of catalytic sites, increasing propylene yield while decreasing propane and oxygen conversion. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species participate in the reaction, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst oxidation and regeneration in the presence of N2O. Research is needed to optimize N2O and O2 ratios for stable, selective ODHP, as the presence of both gases fully explains the improved selectivity of catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, tunable with N2O. N2O's reduced reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Decreased steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propene over COx formation, needing only one to two lattice oxygen for the former. More than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic species participate in COx formation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as a monooxygen donor in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K, surpassing O2's performance. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation limits its efficiency. Higher temperatures, such as 773 K, slow down deactivation and enhance N2O conversion. O2 addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and boosts COx production, hindering propene output. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and implementing efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms, identifying less deactivating active sites, and creating cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, ensuring a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity at low concentrations, modulating catalyst oxidation state for improved performance. Higher N2O levels reduce selectivity and increase carbonaceous products. Catalyst deactivation and stability issues are major hurdles, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which often leads to over-oxidation (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5 (Quote [3]), are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation (Quote [5]) and coke deposition (Quote [8]) are major issues. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and develop stable catalysts, minimizing coke formation and enhancing lifetime, to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing active sites and favoring propene over propane conversion, as seen in Quotes [1] and [2]. High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote [3]). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration using N2O over O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote [4]), highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, outperforming O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential limits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, slightly reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's preference for V2O5. N2O's advantage stems from a reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring selective propene formation over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is due to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a crucial role in selectivity and activity. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst stability and deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP a more practical option. Studies show that propene selectivity increases when O2 is replaced by N2O, with the most significant improvements observed for catalysts possessing bulk-like V2O5 species. The improved performance is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize reduced VOx species, resulting in a higher degree of catalyst reduction and improved propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species, which is responsible for higher propene selectivity but also lower ODP activity. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower reoxidation ability of N2O is also linked to lower ODP activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical, with strategies focusing on advanced research to develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. N2O can mitigate catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants for high selectivity and activity while maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by a decrease in propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). Molybdenum reduction under N2O boosts catalyst selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, critical for practical implementation. Research is needed to develop stable catalysts and optimize conditions. NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, with palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide, show promise, with N2O significantly increasing propylene selectivity (Quotes 5, 6). Strategies to improve stability and reduce deactivation are essential for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by inhibiting peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise increases carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Partial activity can be restored by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research should concentrate on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption, promoting catalyst reduction, and limiting non-selective oxygen species. Its dissociated O oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, addressing limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2. This effect is also observed in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide catalysts. Kinetic analysis reveals slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's consecutive oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops significantly with V2O5 nanocrystallites, although N2O mitigates this effect. Recent studies suggest that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed higher propene selectivity with N2O versus O2 at 10% propane conversion. Further research is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP highlights Fe-zeolites achieving 24% initial propene yields, on par with top V and Mo-based catalysts. N2O's monooxygen donor property facilitates Fe-zeolites' coordination of reactive oxygen species, crucial for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, varying among Fe-beta, Fe-silicalite, and FeZSM-5 zeolites. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is imperative to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation impacts propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is essential for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms (Quote [6]). Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are needed to address the limitations of N2O-ODHP for practical implementation (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve up to 22% propylene yield, outperforming other methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with deactivation rates varying among catalysts. Steam activation reduces Brnsted acid sites, slowing deactivation. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst stability, optimize reaction conditions, and explore alternative iron sources for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, effectively utilizing this greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based and redox metals. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is essential to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing the catalyst's state and inhibiting non-selective sites, as evidenced by quote 2 and 3. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that promote ODHP (quote 5). However, pure N2O causes catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, highlighting the necessity of molecular oxygen for catalyst regeneration (quote 17). The presence of both O2 and N2O modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, improving selectivity (quote 19). Research should focus on optimizing N2O concentration and exploring its interaction with O2 for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity by reducing active sites' oxygen, favoring propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, unlike polyatomic species from O2, which promote COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, slow deactivation and increase N2O conversion. O2 drastically lowers C3H6 yields compared to N2O, with small additions decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify less deactivating active sites, aiming to create cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP offers enhanced propylene selectivity over O2, as exemplified by nickel molybdate-catalyzed reactions with improved yield and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but adjusting N2O concentration can potentially stabilize catalysts. Advanced research is essential to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP industrially viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation compared to dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts, with performance boosted by calcination. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive properties, complicates N2O conversion. The unclear deactivation mechanism lacks strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Advanced research into stable catalysts, deactivation mechanisms, and optimized conditions could significantly improve N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for controlling selective oxidation. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity, while research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity vs. O2, curbing direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its milder oxidizing strength decreases activity but favors propylene. VOx and V2O5 show no significant propylene selectivity gap with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's edge stems from lowering surface oxygen density in VOx, tipping the scale toward propylene over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, promoting higher catalyst reduction. It minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is imperative to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more viable practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species. N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation, improving selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' nature and degree of polymerization significantly influence performance. Microcrystalline V2O5 affects activity and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, mitigated by N2O reducing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species formation. Strategies include optimizing catalyst structure for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is essential to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, hindering practical implementation. Research directions aim to develop stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and possibly inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction, as suggested by N2O's role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, crucial for activity, are generated during steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation, suggesting research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding iron species' role and zeolite structure in deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by inhibiting peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation, as observed in studies [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle, as noted in [3] and [5]. Partial catalyst regeneration can be achieved by heating under N2O, as shown in [8]. Research efforts should concentrate on enhancing catalyst stability and mitigating vanadium reduction to make N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    