Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, leading to a more reduced state of catalytic sites. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across diverse catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. However, VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is limited, necessitating further research on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency compared to O2, yet doubles propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates iron zeolites, reducing propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC aids in correlating deactivation with coking, but lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ N2O oxidation studies over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability post-regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts under N2O, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as optimizing iron incorporation methods and reaction conditions, are crucial. Further research on catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation and integrated process designs for regeneration could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas, significantly boosting propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Iron-based catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5, and redox metals like vanadium and molybdenum, excel in this process. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a critical challenge, limiting N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies could involve developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to a more selective reaction. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O, less oxidant than O2, can induce ODP at higher concentrations. However, pure N2O is not advisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is necessary for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, causing high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity in ODP by modulating their oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and can be tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Reduced active surface lattice oxygen of VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, requiring only 1-2 lattice oxygen. More oxygen species favor waste product formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen involved in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its performance is attributed to its specificity as a monooxygen donor and the coordination of reactive oxygen species by iron forms in the zeolite. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits its effectiveness, with deactivation rates decreasing at higher temperatures. The addition of O2 significantly reduces C3H6 yields and selectivity, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing reaction conditions to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and exploring efficient regeneration methods. Research into understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation is crucial. Additionally, developing cost-effective catalyst systems for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. In the presence of nickel molybdate catalysts, N2O's addition modifies catalytic performance, initially increasing propylene yield and selectivity while decreasing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a major issue, with the conversion of N2O on iron-zeolites complicated by propane's presence. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke and extend catalyst life, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing selectivity (Quote 1). Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for propane and propene activation, is achieved by using N2O over O2 (Quote 4). High propene selectivity is attainable with fully covered, well-dispersed vanadia species on the support. These strategies address catalyst stability and deactivation challenges, making N2O-ODHP a promising avenue for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propylene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is consistent across VOx species with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5 nanoparticles. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, outperforming O2. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Selectivity for propylene can triple with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for higher propylene selectivity and reduced consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, which is essential for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, especially due to the lower ODP activity with N2O. Strategies to address these limitations could involve developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Further research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by studies showing increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are pivotal, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity (Quote 3, 7). However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 5, 6), and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM, coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during gas-solid reactions, providing insights into deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species, zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, attributed to its ability to reoxidize vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposit formation [3], poses a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, keeping catalytic sites in a reduced state. The O from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, but N2O mitigates this effect. A study suggests that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. The VOx/MCM-41 catalyst, previously tested in ODHP, shows a turnover frequency of propane conversion of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, while N2O halves this frequency but doubles propene selectivity to 80% at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is used to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41 and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation limits Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying iron site sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are essential for studying coke formation and deactivation mechanisms, yet detailed investigations on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability remain unexplored, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome limitations and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve remarkable propylene yields up to 22% at 643-773 K. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and in situ regeneration techniques. Research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel in propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's feasibility compared to CO2. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, explaining improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Its lower reoxidation ability increases catalyst reduction, spatially separating active lattice oxygen, which is crucial for propylene selectivity. N2O's effect on selectivity is due to its less favorable reoxidation compared to O2, reducing waste product formation. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene production, while more oxygen species promote CO and CO2. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, whereas polyatomic species contribute to COx formation. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, and its addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production, deteriorating FeZSM-5's performance. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, evidenced by increased propylene yield and selectivity at low N2O concentrations. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, impacting catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination (Quotes 3 and 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant issues. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) limit catalyst lifetime. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and enhance catalyst longevity, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity (Quote 1, 2). High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4). Advanced research is needed to address catalyst limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering higher propene selectivity than O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of reduced VOx sites. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity for V2O5 nanoparticles. N2O's positive effect stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a higher reduction degree, essential for suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. The importance of direct propane oxidation and consecutive propylene oxidation to COx is higher with O2 than N2O, influencing catalytic performance. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propylene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the specific surface area decreases with vanadium loading, and the degree of polymerization of VOx species is influenced by the support material. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O are employed, with N2O potentially controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 8). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which limit practical application. Research directions should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the mechanism by which N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption, promoting reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species, zeolite host, and acidity influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition show increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Partial regeneration is possible under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration needing oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, allowing catalytic sites to operate in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with V2O5 nanocrystallites causing a drop in propene selectivity. Research suggests that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Further studies are needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, as this could lead to improved catalysts for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter suggesting sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing ODHP performance. However, iron zeolites deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking and deactivation, yet lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to O2. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits stability. Strategies to address this include optimizing reaction conditions and catalyst formulations. Further research on iron sources, catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrated process designs is needed for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 production, while vanadium and molybdenum catalysts are also promising. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalyst formulations, optimized reaction conditions, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms to make N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O modifies catalytic performance in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity, and decreasing CO2 production. At >300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2. N2O promotes a reduced state in catalytic sites, increasing selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in selectivity enhancement is attributed to its ability to inhibit non-selective sites, with O2 necessary for catalyst regeneration. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 materials with well-dispersed VOx species and using N2O as an alternative oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation, requiring only one to two lattice oxygen. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. The oxidizing agent's effect on catalytic performance relates to the nature of oxygen species, with atomic oxygen species favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen species participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite that coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields much lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows enhanced propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, increasing propylene yield and selectivity while decreasing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving stability and overcoming limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination ([3], [4]). However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature, poses a significant challenge ([5], [6]). The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is complex, lacking effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime ([7], [8]). Addressing these limitations through advanced research could enhance N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to less favorable N2O decomposition, reducing active sites and enhancing propene formation (Quote 1, 2). High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4). Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that curbs direct propane oxidation and propene's over-oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity. N2O's positive effect stems from lowering surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This results in reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering a more selective pathway. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in a lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing selectivity. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. The primary C3H6 selectivity is higher with N2O over a broad range of propane conversions, especially for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants for high selectivity and activity while maintaining stability. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propene selectivity. Strategies to address limitations include advanced catalyst design and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4 catalysts, enhancing selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and potentially inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. TEOM, coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, revealing deactivation patterns. Steam activation is critical for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating aids, but full activity requires O2. Research should target stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction, likely due to its ability to work in a more reduced state and limit non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, offering higher selectivity than other oxidants. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx sites' increased activity for propene oxidation with agglomerization and direct propane oxidation when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, although N2O mitigates this. Propene selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters. Experimental evidence suggests other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Research is needed to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, while N2O achieved 80% propene selectivity versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% propene yields with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation are key. However, coke-induced deactivation is a major challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter suggesting sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, complex and multifaceted, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as highlighted in quote [1]. Iron zeolites exhibit superior performance in ODHP with N2O. However, catalyst deactivation by coke, noted in quote [2], significantly reduces propylene yield. In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy, mentioned in quote [6], are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms and carbonaceous deposit formation. Quote [9] underscores the lack of in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites, emphasizing the need for advanced research to address catalyst limitations and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits stability. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. Research should focus on alternative iron sources, enhanced deactivation resistance, and integrated process designs for catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts are particularly effective for high propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility compared to CO2. Addressing this requires stable catalyst formulations, optimized reaction conditions, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms to make N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to a more selective reaction. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O's role at higher concentrations involves oxygen species from its dissociation, which can induce ODP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen (O2) for regeneration. N2O reduces molybdenum catalysts, causing high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity in ODP by modulating their oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species promoting selective oxidation. Direct evidence is lacking. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, evidenced by its performance in other oxidation reactions. In the ODHP process, N2O's addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion and oxygen consumption, while increasing propylene yield and selectivity. However, at higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research to make N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote [3]). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote [5]) and the complex conversion of N2O in the presence of propane (Quote [6]) are significant challenges. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, while optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, which participates in propane and propene activation, controls selective oxidation and combustion. Replacing O2 with N2O optimizes this concentration, improving ODHP performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, enhancing propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O reducing CO and CO2 formation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a lower ODP activity than O2 but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. The critical challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges. Research should focus on developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions to improve catalyst longevity and efficiency, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, reveals the correlation between activity and deactivation. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which propels carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating aids, but full recovery needs oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, vanadium reduction minimization, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, working in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to improve catalyst stability and address deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O leads to fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, but N2O mitigates this effect. Recent studies suggest that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Further research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, aiming to improve catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant challenge, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation mechanisms involve a decrease in active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enables efficient propane dehydrogenation, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation significantly reduces propylene yield. While TEOM coupled with GC analysis offers detailed insights into coke formation, it lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism information. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is crucial for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in zeolite catalysts. Advanced research is needed to understand the deactivation of iron-containing zeolites in C3H8 + N2O reactions and catalyst regeneration. In situ investigations of N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are underexplored areas requiring attention.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in this process, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a critical challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, design catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across various catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based materials, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalyst formulations, optimized reaction conditions, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity are key findings. Further research is needed to optimize N2O concentration and O2 presence for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with well-dispersed VOx species and using N2O as an alternative oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with one to two lattice oxygen species favor selective propane oxidation to propene, while more oxygen species favor waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species are responsible for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields much lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. In nickel molybdate catalysts, N2O improves propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially addressing challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability. Further research is needed to optimize N2O concentration for improved catalytic performance and practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as efficient catalysts, though catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke formation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to less favorable N2O decomposition compared to O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O instead of O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion, essential for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion. N2O's positive impact stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities. Highly dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show similar propene selectivity with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering advantages in propene selectivity and reduced COx formation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. N2O's lower oxidizing ability leads to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also impacts COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propylene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, with a decrease in propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide are used, where N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as using more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions, could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility. For instance, N2O's role in reducing molybdenum and controlling selectivity suggests potential for advanced catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after extended periods. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, revealing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, with mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O, suggesting potential strategies for advanced research to enhance catalyst stability and practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, is a key challenge. Partial regeneration is possible with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, keeping catalytic sites in a more reduced state. This limits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls catalyst oxidation state. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, observed across diverse catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. This enhancement is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to reduced active lattice oxygen sites and suppressed propene oxidation to COx. The selectivity remains high as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage, with isolated VOx sites. Agglomerization of VOx sites decreases selectivity, and direct propane oxidation occurs, albeit less with N2O. Recent studies suggest that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Further research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, while N2O achieved half the conversion rate but 80% propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion, compared to 50% with O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields similar to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites, activated by steam, yield 24% propene at elevated temperatures, highlighting N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant issue, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation limits propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC are crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms and assessing catalyst reversibility, yet detailed studies on catalyst reusability are lacking. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations and improve N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites yield 22% propylene, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalysts deactivate due to coke formation, limiting stability. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability, optimize conditions to minimize coke, and explore alternative iron sources for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts excel in C3H6 yield, but catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalyst formulations, optimized reaction conditions, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to more selective sites. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in ODHP, alongside O2, optimizes catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Its lower reoxidation ability increases catalyst reduction, spatially separating active lattice oxygen, which is key for propylene selectivity. Using N2O as an oxidant tunes selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials. Reduced VOx sites' reoxidation by N2O enhances propene selectivity compared to O2. Decreased active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms. More than two oxygen atoms favor waste product formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge, leading to decreased propene yields. Higher temperatures reduce deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research could focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in oxidation reactions. It modifies catalytic performance, reducing propane conversion, increasing propylene yield and selectivity, and decreasing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability need further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote [3]). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote [5]) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote [6]) are significant challenges. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, reducing active site concentration and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support achieve high propene selectivity by optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for selective oxidation and combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, enhancing propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is unaffected by VOx dispersion or V2O5 nanoparticle crystallinity with N2O. The benefit stems from reduced surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This is evident in catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. [Quote 1] and [Quote 3] demonstrate higher initial propene selectivity with N2O across various vanadium oxides. [Quote 5] and [Quote 13] highlight the role of vanadium site reduction and oxygen species in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, especially with the need for a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and the prevention of nonselective oxygen species formation. Strategies to address these limitations could involve the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and the optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions could focus on understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in the selectivity of the ODHP process, as well as the development of new catalyst formulations that can maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide are employed. N2O's addition boosts propylene selectivity, reduces CO2 yield, and promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. However, it decreases propane conversion and CO2 yield, posing practical application challenges. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability, develop more active/selective catalysts, and optimize reaction conditions could address these limitations, making N2O-ODHP more viable. For instance, N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests potential synergies in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits [3], [5], poses a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full recovery needing oxygen [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, as it works in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process and address catalyst deactivation and stability issues, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, but N2O mitigates this effect. A recent study suggests that non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, necessitating further research. Prior studies on VOx/MCM-41 showed higher propene selectivity (80%) with N2O versus O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower turnover frequency. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is proposed to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant issue, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Deactivation rates vary among Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests active iron sites with varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation by coke, reducing propylene yield. The TEOM technique coupled with GC analysis effectively monitors coking and deactivation, but lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposit formation and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Detailed in situ studies on N2O oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are needed, as these areas remain underexplored. Characterization methods like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption can evaluate catalyst reversibility post-regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and employing in situ regeneration techniques. Research should explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate regeneration steps for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based materials like Fe-ZSM-5 and redox metals, including vanadium and molybdenum, are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a critical challenge, limiting N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires advanced research for more stable catalysts, optimized reaction conditions to minimize coke, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to a more selective reaction. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O's presence above 300 ppm suggests a role in ODP through oxygen species from its dissociation. However, pure N2O is not advisable due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, explaining high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This separation favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials and further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx formation, while more oxygen species favor waste products. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, though direct evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. The catalyst's performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, deactivation due to coke formation limits propene yield, with slower deactivation observed at higher temperatures. O2 leads to significantly lower C3H6 yields and increased COx production compared to N2O. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts are used, with N2O addition improving propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while reducing propane conversion, oxygen consumption, and CO2 yield. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability need further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity compared to dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane, forming CO and CO2 (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote [3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature, complicating N2O conversion. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing catalyst lifetime for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to less favorable N2O decomposition compared to O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by optimizing the catalyst structure and composition to enhance stability and selectivity. Strategies for practical implementation could involve developing methods to regenerate deactivated catalysts and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as it promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4 catalysts, enhancing selectivity (Quote [3], [7]). Compared to other oxidants, N2O decreases propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield (Quote [2]). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide are employed, with -Sb2O4 controlling selectivity and N2O inhibiting oxygen adsorption, promoting reduction (Quote [8], [10]). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and optimize reaction conditions for improved stability and reduced deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more feasible.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and extraframework iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM, with its real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Catalysts with higher iron content show significantly higher initial activities. The rapid deactivation in FeBEA is linked to its structure. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation, as atomic oxygen can partially regenerate the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with O2 are strategies. Research should target stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. The O from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in lower active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Research aims to identify oxygen species from O2 and N2O on VOx/MCM-41, with prior studies showing N2O yields higher propene selectivity at half the propane conversion rate compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will explore these species' reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation are key. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation involves a decrease in active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP. However, coke formation significantly deactivates these catalysts, reducing propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy are crucial for studying coke formation and catalyst deactivation, revealing the need for detailed in situ investigations to understand deactivation mechanisms and catalyst regeneration in N2O-ODHP processes. Research gaps include the lack of in situ studies on hydrocarbon oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and the extent of catalyst reusability after regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields up to 22%. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing reaction conditions and developing more stable catalyst formulations. Further research on iron sources, catalyst design, and integrated process designs with regeneration steps could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Replacing oxygen with N2O significantly increases propylene yield across catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O explain the improved selectivity in ODHP, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and is tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as fewer lattice oxygen species are needed for selective propane oxidation. Active sites with excess oxygen favor CO and CO2 formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen aiding selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propene yield. Increasing temperature reduces deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, associated with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. At low N2O concentrations, propane conversion decreases, propylene yield and selectivity increase, and oxygen consumption and CO2 yield reduce. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Critical challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a major hurdle. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is unclear, and coke deposition limits catalyst lifetime. Addressing these requires in-depth research on deactivation, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and enhance catalyst longevity, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, essential for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that curbs direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2 where V2O5 lacks selectivity. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Catalysts with higher reduction degree exhibit improved propene selectivity, but consecutive propene oxidation is influenced by more than just reduction degree. Transient experiments with isotopically labeled 18O2 support the role of oxygen species in selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for lower ODP activity but also for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species is also significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used as an oxidant in ODHP, significantly boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing catalyst selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing insights into coking. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity, attributed to its reoxidation mechanism without peroxovanadates formation, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, is a key challenge [3]. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction, as it likely prevents non-selective oxygen species formation and controls catalyst oxidation state. The O2 from N2O dissociation specifically oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. Research on catalyst stability and deactivation is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, as per studies (1,2). This effect is also observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide (2). N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (3). Challenges include VOx agglomerization affecting propene oxidation activity and catalyst deactivation. Research aims to identify oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41, crucial for understanding catalyst behavior and improving selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation by coke rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying coke sensitivity among active iron sites. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as noted in quote [1]. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke, mentioned in quote [2], significantly reduces propylene yield. Advanced methodologies like TEOM and GC analysis (quote [3]) are used to study coking, but they lack surface-level deactivation mechanism insights (quote [5]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy (quote [7]) is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (quote [8]). Research gaps include in situ N2O oxidation studies over iron zeolites (quote [9]) and catalyst reusability (quote [10]). Complementary spectroscopic studies and analysis techniques (quotes [6], [11]-[12]) are suggested to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites yield 22% propylene, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with deactivation being slower over steam-activated zeolites. Research directions include improving catalyst stability, minimizing coke formation, and exploring alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts are notably effective. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility compared to CO2. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust catalyst design in N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to a selective reaction. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating O2 for regeneration. N2O's role is to inhibit non-selective sites, with O2 and N2O together improving selectivity by modulating the catalyst's oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species, further enhanced by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of VOx sites boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields due to its specificity as a monooxygen donor and the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation is a significant challenge, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields lower C3H6 compared to N2O, and its addition to the C3H8+N2O mixture decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, evidenced by its performance in other oxidation reactions. In the presence of nickel molybdate catalysts, N2O modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while reducing propane conversion, oxygen consumption, and CO2 yield. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. The literature highlights the need for advanced research to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, especially after severe calcination, excel in N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicates N2O conversion. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing catalyst lifetime for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propene selectivity is unaffected by VOx species dispersion when N2O is the oxidant. N2O's advantage stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for lower ODP activity but also for higher propylene selectivity by suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of VOx species and their degree of polymerization influence the catalytic performance. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is also responsible for the lower ODP activity with N2O than with O2. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Advanced research is needed to develop strategies that address these limitations, focusing on catalyst design and reaction conditions that enhance selectivity and stability for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction under N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, indicating practical limitations. Catalyst stability and deactivation are critical, requiring research for advanced catalysts with improved stability and selectivity. Optimizing reaction conditions could enhance catalyst performance, making N2O-ODHP more viable. The presence of Mo5+ under N2O suggests a more selective catalyst state, while -Sb2O4 and N2O may play similar roles in controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing the impact of zeolite structure on deactivation rates. Steam activation enhances catalytic activities, and the presence of mesopores in FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and slows deactivation. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and resistance to coke formation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, attributed to its ability to reoxidize vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposit formation [3] and [5], poses a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, working in a more reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Research suggests non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, necessitating studies on oxygen species' nature and structure over VOx/MCM-41. Prior work on this catalyst showed higher propene selectivity with N2O, despite lower propane conversion rate, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is due to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation significantly reduces propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis effectively monitors coking and deactivation, though it lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, necessitating further research. Complementary spectroscopic techniques under reaction conditions could provide insights into deactivation and regeneration processes, improving catalyst performance and practicality in N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits stability. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions. Further research on iron sources, catalyst design, and integrated process designs could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, notably with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts yield high propylene, but rapid deactivation, mainly from coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to reduce coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less effectively than O2. N2O promotes a reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and its synergy with O2 for optimal catalyst oxidation state are critical for enhanced selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering supports with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, while more oxygen species promote waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. At low N2O concentrations, propane conversion decreases, propylene yield and selectivity increase, and oxygen consumption and CO2 yield reduce. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature, is a significant challenge. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity (Quote [1], [2]). High selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species (Quote [3]). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, using N2O over O2, controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote [4]).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering higher propene selectivity than O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity but favoring propene formation. N2O's positive effect stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, promoting selective propene production over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, as demonstrated in studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. The improved selectivity, up to three times higher, is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. This effect is more pronounced with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the reduction degree of vanadium species, leading to spatial separation of active lattice oxygen species and reducing the surface density of active oxygen species. However, N2O's lower activity compared to O2 presents a challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants. The nature of oxygen species also plays a critical role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Advanced research is needed to precisely define the nature of oxygen species originating from O2 and N2O over reduced VOx species and to develop catalysts that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants. This process employs NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixtures, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide catalysts. N2O's addition significantly enhances propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction under N2O improves catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, which limit practicality, and catalyst deactivation. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and reducing deactivation, potentially through more stable catalysts or optimized reaction conditions. -Sb2O4 and N2O may play similar roles in controlling NiMoO4 selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. Fe-zeolites with higher iron content show significantly higher initial activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and slows deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures partially restores activity, with full recovery needing O2. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, allowing catalytic sites to operate in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with V2O5 nanocrystallites causing a drop in propene selectivity. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, as N2O forms fewer non-lattice oxygen species that contribute to COx formation. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and explore their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, aiding in the development of more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates iron zeolites, reducing propylene yield. TEOM and GC analysis correlate deactivation with coking, but lack surface-level insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation. Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are needed. XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption assess catalyst reversibility post-regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and resistance to deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, particularly with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based materials, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalytic sites, leading to a more selective reaction (Quote 3). It inhibits non-selective propane activation, decreasing conversion while increasing selectivity (Quote 8). At higher concentrations, N2O's dissociation products play a role, suggesting its ability to induce ODHP (Quote 5). However, pure N2O is not advisable as O2 is crucial for catalyst regeneration and to prevent rapid deactivation (Quote 17). N2O's role, alongside O2, fully explains the improved selectivity in ODHP by modulating the catalyst's oxidation state (Quote 19).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with well-dispersed VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, while more oxygen species favor waste products. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O affects catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species linked to selective oxidation and polyatomic species to COx formation, although direct evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts' performance is modified by N2O, increasing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while higher concentrations decrease selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate catalyst oxidation state, improving performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for this process (Quote [3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, affecting both N2O and dioxygen reactions (Quote [5]). The complex conversion of N2O on iron-zeolites and unclear deactivation mechanisms (Quote [7]) hinder practical implementation. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, as N2O decomposition is less favorable, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, critical for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, enhancing propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's positive impact stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, up to three times more than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O affects selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, the ODP activity with N2O is lower than with O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propylene selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with the formation of nonselective oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations could involve optimizing the catalyst structure to enhance stability and selectivity, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as developing more stable or selective catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions, could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality. Studies show that N2O's addition to NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixtures decreases propane conversion and CO2 yield but increases propylene selectivity. The mechanism suggests N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which propels carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating aids, but full activity needs oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    