Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, likely due to its ability to work in a more reduced state and limit non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene over-oxidation. However, VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation. Selectivity remains high with low vanadium surface concentration. V2O5 nanocrystallites lead to lower propene selectivity and propane total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. Research is needed to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O. EPR spectroscopy was used to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41, showing N2O's positive impact on propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant issue, rapidly diminishing propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Active iron sites in FeZSM-5 show varying sensitivity to coke, complicating deactivation. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOM-GC analysis are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms and coke evolution, revealing the need for detailed studies under reaction conditions. Despite the lack of reported in situ investigations with N2O over iron zeolites, such studies are crucial for improving catalyst reusability and understanding the ODHP reaction under true process conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve significant propylene yields (up to 22%) at 643-773 K, outperforming mixed metal oxides. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Iron impurities in steamed commercial H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Further research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and integrate regeneration techniques to address deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based materials like Fe-ZSM-5 yield high propylene, but catalysts often deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, limiting N2O's feasibility. Addressing catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms are critical for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation. Molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst regeneration in the presence of N2O. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O explain the enhanced selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. The effect of N2O on catalytic performance is related to oxygen species, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation. Direct evidence is lacking, but N2O's role in improving propylene selectivity is clear.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation and reduced propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts' performance is enhanced by N2O, increasing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, but higher concentrations decrease selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting N2O concentration could modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation ([5]) and stability issues are major hurdles. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation are needed to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. This is due to N2O decomposition being less favorable than O2 activation. High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species on the support, optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen for selective oxidation and combustion. Using N2O instead of O2 optimizes this concentration, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent for dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, up to three times more than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for lower ODP activity but also for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of VOx species and their degree of polymerization influence the catalytic performance. The use of N2O reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can lead to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address catalyst stability and deactivation include optimizing the catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as using more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions, could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility. For instance, N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites parallels -Sb2O4's function, suggesting synergistic effects in mixed catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM, with its real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation resistance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used in propane ODHP, offers higher propene selectivity due to its unique reoxidation mechanism that avoids peroxovanadate formation, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposit formation [3] and [5], is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity [8], but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, keeping catalytic sites in a reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen oxidizes propane to propene, potentially improving selectivity over other oxidants by controlling catalyst oxidation state and limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species leads to fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. However, VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation. Propene selectivity drops dramatically with V2O5 nanocrystallites, but N2O mitigates this effect. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species that contribute to COx formation. Limited data exists on the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O. Research aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 with both oxidants, crucial for understanding and improving catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation mechanisms involve active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in iron zeolites, attributed to reactive atomic oxygen coordination. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM and GC analysis help monitor deactivation, but lack surface-level insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation. Despite this, in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking, as is detailed research on catalyst reusability. Complementary spectroscopic studies and catalyst characterization methods are needed to address these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown superior performance in N2O-ODHP, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a critical challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing iron incorporation methods, enhancing catalyst stability, and developing in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to minimize catalyst deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O isn't suitable for ODHP as it requires molecular oxygen to prevent rapid catalyst deactivation. N2O's role is to inhibit non-selective sites, and the presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation, requiring only one to two lattice oxygen for the reaction. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O affects catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen species participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, which slows at higher temperatures, as seen at 773 K with high N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower propene (<5%) and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research could focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, while exploring low-cost N2O sources could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, as observed in other oxidation reactions. In nickel molybdate-catalyzed ODHP, N2O's addition modifies catalytic performance: it decreases propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing catalyst lifetime for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for propane and propene activation, is achieved by using N2O over O2, controlling selective oxidation and combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits propane's direct oxidation and propylene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2 where V2O5 lacks selectivity. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for lower ODP activity but also for reduced consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing propylene selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of VOx species and their degree of polymerization influence the catalytic performance. The use of N2O mitigates the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can lead to catalyst deactivation. However, challenges remain in maintaining catalyst stability and activity. Strategies to address these include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that can provide high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. Advanced research is needed to fully understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that can maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are pivotal. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, possibly through new catalyst development or optimizing reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity, attributed to its ability to reoxidize vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. This results in higher propene yields despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration is possible by heating under N2O, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction, as it provides a controlled source of oxygen for propane oxidation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process. However, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2 (Quotes 1, 2). The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's consecutive oxidation to COx (Quote 3). VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity (Quote 6). Selectivity remains high for isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, with N2O mitigating this effect (Quotes 7, 8). Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O (Quote 9). Limited data exists on the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O (Quote 10). The study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 (Quote 11). Previously characterized VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show higher propene selectivity with N2O, despite lower turnover frequency (Quotes 13, 14).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is due to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation mechanisms involve active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as noted in Quote 1. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke, mentioned in Quote 2, significantly reduces propylene yield. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability, as current techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy provide detailed insights but lack surface-level analysis. In situ studies under reaction conditions could enhance understanding of the ODHP process, particularly regarding the selective oxidation of hydrocarbons with N2O over iron-containing zeolites, an area yet to be explored.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and improved propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions. Further research is needed to understand the role of acidity in deactivation and to explore alternative iron sources for enhanced catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas (Quote 1). Replacing oxygen with N2O significantly increases propylene yield for catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones (Quote 2). Iron-based materials, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. Redox metals, including vanadium and molybdenum, are also studied. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility (Quote 4). Enhancing catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms are critical (Quote 5). Research strategies could include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to reduce coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species, promoting ODHP selectively. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O on catalyst oxidation state are key to improved selectivity in ODHP, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering supports with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen leading to COx formation. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with 773 K showing slower deactivation and high N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and enhancing regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion while increasing propylene yield and selectivity. At higher concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke formation, enhancing catalyst lifetime for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and enhancing propene formation, as O2 activation is more favorable than N2O decomposition. High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species on the support, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O instead of O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering superior propylene selectivity over O2 at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx species and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. The benefit of N2O stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, the ODP activity with N2O is lower than with O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propene selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as it reduces molybdenum, enhancing catalyst selectivity (quotes 2, 3, 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, linked to catalyst deactivation and stability issues. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability, possibly through developing more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions (quote 10), making N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity with deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species and zeolite structure affects deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a key challenge [3]. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures partially restores activity, with full restoration needing oxygen [8]. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, working in a more reduced state. The O2 from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites. N2O mitigates this effect. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. Limited data exists on oxygen species from O2 and N2O. The study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 with both oxidants. N2O yields higher propene selectivity (80%) vs. O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower turnover frequency. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites at high temperatures, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP due to its ability to coordinate reactive atomic oxygen species with iron zeolites (Quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation by coke (Quote [2]) significantly reduces propylene yield. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability, focusing on in situ studies under reaction conditions. Techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy are promising for monitoring coke formation and surface changes, but detailed investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst regeneration are lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts in this process. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge. Strategies to overcome this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and employing in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and explore alternative iron sources for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this through stable catalyst development and understanding deactivation mechanisms could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) by reducing catalytic sites, leading to a more selective reaction. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O, less oxidant than O2, can induce ODP when present above 300 ppm. However, pure N2O is not advisable as O2 is crucial for catalyst regeneration, preventing quick deactivation. N2O reduces catalysts, explaining high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing spatial separation of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 materials with well-dispersed VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity by limiting VOx site reoxidation. This effect is due to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O compared to O2, decreasing active surface lattice oxygen concentration, which favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation and reduced propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to overcome limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. In nickel molybdate catalysts, N2O addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion, increasing propylene yield and selectivity, and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, at higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for this process ([3]), with superior performance after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductant role and the complex N2O conversion ([5], [6]). The deactivation mechanism is not fully understood ([7]), and there's a lack of methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime ([8]). Addressing these limitations requires research into deactivation mechanisms, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke and maximize catalyst longevity, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, which is achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which curbs direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity, as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes reduced surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent with both highly dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when N2O is the oxidant, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from reducing surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. The lower ODP activity with N2O is attributed to its reduced ability to reoxidize VOx species, which is beneficial for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species is crucial, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The primary C3H6 selectivity is higher with N2O over a broad range of propane conversions, especially for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with N2O helping to mitigate issues by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these challenges include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction. -Sb2O4 and N2O may play similar roles in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. TEOM, coupled with GC analysis, measures real-time mass changes during gas-solid reactions, correlating activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, as it reoxidizes vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, poses a challenge, as noted in [3] and [5]. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, as per [8]. Research should aim to enhance catalyst stability, optimize conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and explore efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, keeping catalytic sites in a reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, but N2O mitigates this effect. N2O's advantage is attributed to fewer non-lattice oxygen species formed from it versus O2. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is limited, necessitating further research. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed higher propene selectivity with N2O (80%) than O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites at high temperatures, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest among studied zeolites. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor, enabling efficient propane dehydrogenation by iron zeolites, is a key advantage in ODHP, as noted in [1]. However, catalyst deactivation by coke, leading to reduced propylene yield [2], is a significant challenge. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, offers detailed insights into coke formation and deactivation [3-4], though it lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism details [5]. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes [7], aiding in understanding deactivation [6]. Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking [9], as is research on catalyst reusability [10]. Complementary spectroscopic studies and analysis methods [11-12] are proposed to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields due to their enhanced stability and lower deactivation rates. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, remains a significant challenge. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as optimizing iron incorporation methods and developing catalysts with improved resistance to coke formation, are crucial for practical implementation. Further research is needed to fully understand and control the role of acidity in ODHP, which affects both initial performance and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, making it an eco-friendly option by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 stands out for high C3H6 production, while vanadium and molybdenum are also viable. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is needed to improve stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, suggesting strategies like developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering resistant catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, contributing to ODP. However, pure N2O isn't viable due to catalyst deactivation; O2 is essential for regeneration. N2O's role in improving selectivity is maximized in the presence of both O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 materials with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, focusing on oxygen species' role in selectivity and COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, deteriorating propene selectivity. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in oxidation reactions. Adding N2O modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion, increasing propylene yield and selectivity, and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, could improve catalysts' oxidation state and performance, addressing the lack of discussion on catalyst deactivation and stability. Further research is needed to optimize N2O concentration for enhanced catalytic activity and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation is a major challenge, affecting both oxidants. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and develop more stable catalysts to minimize coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support fully covered can achieve high propene selectivity by avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, which is involved in propane and propene activation, can control selective oxidation and combustion reactions, achieved by using N2O over O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity but enhancing selectivity. N2O's positive effect stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles lack selectivity for ODHP with O2, unlike N2O. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by minimizing the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times greater propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing that N2O's ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is lower than O2, which is beneficial for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, and strategies to address these include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, impacting practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies like developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility. -Sb2O4 and N2O may play similar roles in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. FeMFI zeolites face deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. The TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, with mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, despite lower propane conversion, due to its ability to reoxidize vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, is a key challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should target more stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. The O2 from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) compared to molecular oxygen (O2), as observed over various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. This effect is consistent across different catalysts, including vanadium magnesium oxide for n-butane dehydrogenation. Propene selectivity remains high as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage, but drops significantly with V2O5 nanocrystallites. N2O mitigates this effect. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Further research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, aiming to improve catalyst stability and selectivity for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving high initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propylene yield. TEOM-GC analysis reveals deactivation patterns, yet lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy could monitor carbonaceous deposit formation and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation and regeneration. Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking, as is the extent of catalyst reusability post-regeneration. Complementary TEOMGC experiments and catalyst characterization methods can assess reversibility and deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and improved propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable performance in N2O-ODHP, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge, affecting the stability and lifetime of iron zeolites. Strategies to mitigate deactivation include optimizing reaction conditions and developing more stable catalyst formulations. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrate regeneration techniques, making N2O-ODHP a more viable option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts, among others, significantly enhance propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, suggesting strategies like developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species, promoting selective reaction conditions. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Hypotheses suggest atomic oxygen species promote selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, though direct evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits its performance. Increasing temperature to 773 K slows deactivation, correlating with higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx. Strategies to overcome limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance: at low concentrations, it decreases propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance and addressing challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which often results in CO and CO2 formation, reducing olefin yields [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP [3]. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a significant hurdle [5]. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity (Quote [1]). Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, which participates in propane and propene activation, is achieved by using N2O over O2 (Quote [4]). This optimization is crucial for controlling selective oxidation and combustion reactions. To enhance performance, catalytic surfaces should be fully covered by well-dispersed vanadia species. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering higher propene selectivity than O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene over-oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity but enhancing selectivity. Both highly dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show similar propene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propylene selectivity. Strategies to address the limitations of N2O-ODHP include optimizing catalyst structure and composition to enhance stability and selectivity, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to overcome the challenges of catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction under N2O enhances selectivity. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide show improved performance with N2O. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which limit practical application. Research directions should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing the impact of zeolite structure on deactivation rates. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, and the presence of iron species is responsible for propane oxydehydrogenation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, formed by dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction as noted in [3] and [5], is a critical challenge. Regeneration by heating under N2O at high temperatures, as in [8], partly restores activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, allowing catalytic sites to operate in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation more than N2O. Research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed 80% propene selectivity with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant challenge, rapidly decreasing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter suggesting sites with varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing ODHP performance. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates iron zeolites, reducing propylene yield. The TEOM technique with GC analysis effectively correlates deactivation and coking, but lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. Complementary spectroscopic studies, like in situ FTIR, are needed to monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in real-time, improving ODHP understanding. Despite the need for in situ investigations and catalyst reusability studies, research is lacking. Infrared and TEOMGC experiments complement each other, aiding in evaluating catalyst reversibility post-regeneration, as confirmed by XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption analyses.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields due to their efficiency at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke, and in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on alternative iron sources, catalysts resistant to deactivation, and integrated process designs could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, making it an eco-friendly option by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Replacing oxygen with N2O significantly increases propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a major hurdle, limiting N2O's practicality. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to reduce coke, and designing catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less effectively than molecular oxygen. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, when well-dispersed, improve selectivity, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Research gaps exist regarding oxygen species' role in selectivity and COx formation, suggesting areas for future investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its superiority is due to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, which is mitigated by higher temperatures, as seen at 773 K with slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to overcome limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion and oxygen consumption, while increasing propylene yield and selectivity. However, at higher concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, could improve catalyst stability and oxidation state, addressing critical challenges in the N2O-ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation (CO, CO2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductant role in N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is not fully understood, and strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime are lacking. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, and optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, as shown by the steady-state concentration's role in propane and propene activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, enhancing propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, reducing active surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species. This selectivity is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles. N2O's lower catalytic activity, due to its reduced re-oxidation capability of surface VOx, is outweighed by its selectivity benefits. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction. This enhancement is particularly evident with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences the selectivity and activity of vanadium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODHP reaction over certain catalysts. N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species is essential for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The importance of direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx is significantly higher in the presence of O2 than in N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction under N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction. -Sb2O4 and N2O may play similar roles in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking by coke and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, attributed to its reoxidation mechanism without peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits [3], is a critical challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration needing oxygen [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, keeping catalytic sites in a reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene oxidation to COx. However, VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation, and high vanadium concentrations lead to propane total oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Research suggests additional oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, necessitating further investigation. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a major issue, rapidly reducing propene yield. Fe-beta zeolites deactivate fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation by coke deposition limits performance. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed to monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst reversibility and regeneration, as current studies lack detailed insights into these processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in this process. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrating catalyst regeneration steps into the process design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, as evidenced by its performance across various catalysts, including iron and vanadium-based materials. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge, limiting N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies could involve developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in improving selectivity is attributed to its ability to inhibit non-selective propane activation and modulate the catalyst's oxidation state, especially in the presence of O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity is improved on V/g-Al2O3 materials by fully covering the support with well-dispersed VOx species, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity. The mechanism involves a decrease in steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen, favoring propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, with even small amounts decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts' performance is enhanced by N2O, increasing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while higher concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance and addressing challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, with Fe-ZSM-5 showing superior performance after calcination. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke and extend catalyst life, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, due to less favorable N2O decomposition, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface improve selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, enhancing propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing active surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species. This promotes selective propene formation over combustion reactions. Despite lower catalytic activity, N2O ensures comparable propene selectivity with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2, which favors combustion. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, offering up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O's oxygen species playing a crucial role in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, leading to spatial separation of active lattice oxygen species and reducing the surface density of active oxygen species. This effect is more pronounced for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies such as controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by studies showing increased selectivity and reduced CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, alongside catalyst deactivation and stability issues. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, as well as its ability to reduce the surface of molybdenum, are key to improving the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. TEOM, coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during gas-solid reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. This slower reoxidation enhances propene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, as it works by limiting non-selective oxygen species formation and controlling the oxidation state of the catalyst. The dissociation of N2O produces oxygen that selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, halved with N2O, yet propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41 and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, with Fe-zeolites achieving high propene yields (24%) akin to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation are pivotal. However, coke-induced deactivation poses a significant challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. Fe-beta zeolites deactivate faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating diverse iron sites' sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as observed in iron zeolites' superior performance (Quote 1). However, coke formation significantly deactivates these catalysts, reducing propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst regeneration, as current techniques like TEOM lack surface-level insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy could monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, offering real-time reaction monitoring. Despite this, in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability remain unexplored areas requiring attention.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing iron incorporation methods, enhancing catalyst stability, and developing in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to minimize catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 production, while vanadium and molybdenum are also viable. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O modifies catalytic performance in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At >300 ppm, N2O's dissociation products play a role, promoting ODHP selectively. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. Optimal selectivity in ODHP is achieved with a combination of O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to its lower reoxidation ability, increasing catalyst reduction and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This separation favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower activity, attributed to reduced VOx site reoxidation, enhances propene selectivity. The less favorable reoxidation by N2O compared to O2 is key. Active sites with one to two lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 addition significantly decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts, when doped with N2O, exhibit improved catalytic performance: propane conversion decreases, propylene yield and selectivity increase, and oxygen consumption and CO2 yield reduce at low N2O concentrations. However, high N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing catalytic performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote 3). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion (Quote 6), and unclear deactivation mechanisms (Quote 7) hinder process efficiency. Research is needed to understand deactivation (Quote 8) and develop stable catalysts to minimize coke formation and extend catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for high propene selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propene selectivity is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with nanoparticles. N2O's benefit stems from lowered surface oxygen density, favoring propene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, by limiting the re-oxidation of reduced VOx species, as demonstrated in studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. This higher degree of catalyst reduction under N2O leads to improved initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O reducing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity than with O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. The challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Strategies for practical implementation involve understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by studies showing increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide enhance this process, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for better selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research directions should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the role of N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, cause deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, reveals the impact of catalyst structure on deactivation. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, with mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which promotes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should aim for more stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and alternative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, working in a more reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, as well as in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Kinetic analysis reveals slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Research suggests additional oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, necessitating further investigation. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, compared to half with N2O, but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41, exploring their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields (24%) with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, complex and multifaceted, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, a key advantage in ODHP. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke significantly reduces propylene yield, a critical challenge. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking and deactivation but lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, highlighting a research gap. Complementary spectroscopic studies and in situ investigations are needed to advance N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in this process. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions. Further research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, making it a promising oxidant. Iron and vanadium catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in this process, but face rapid deactivation, mainly due to coke formation. Addressing this, through catalyst stability improvements and deactivation mechanism understanding, could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation; molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O contribute to improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms. More oxygen atoms favor waste product formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic species participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with 773 K showing slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene (<5%) and increases COx production. Strategies to overcome limitations include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research on NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion and oxygen consumption, while increasing propylene yield and selectivity. However, at higher concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance. The literature lacks details on catalyst deactivation and stability in N2O-ODHP, indicating a need for advanced research to address these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, with complex N2O conversion and unclear deactivation mechanisms. Addressing these requires research into deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and extend catalyst life, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of VOx species. Propylene selectivity is unaffected by VOx species dispersion or crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity. N2O's positive effect stems from decreasing surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, as demonstrated in studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. The improved selectivity, up to three times higher, is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. This effect is more pronounced with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O reducing non-selective reaction pathways. These findings suggest that catalyst reduction degree and oxygen species nature are key factors in propene selectivity, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. The use of N2O can mitigate deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. However, the lower activity of N2O compared to O2 remains a limitation. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants. This is evidenced by studies showing a significant increase in propylene yield while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are employed. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. For instance, the role of -Sb2O4 in controlling selectivity and N2O's inhibition of oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction, are key areas for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. Deactivation by coke is a major drawback, causing a rapid decrease in propene yield. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Regeneration under N2O partly restores activity, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it allows catalytic sites to operate in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a promising but research-intensive process for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's consecutive oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization affecting propene selectivity, with V2O5 nanocrystallites causing a significant drop in selectivity and direct propane oxidation. N2O mitigates this effect. Research is needed on the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, as non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed higher propene selectivity with N2O (80%) than O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower turnover frequency. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites, matching top-performing V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, deactivation rates vary, with Fe-beta being most susceptible, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation mechanisms are complex, involving active site reduction, quality degradation, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation significantly reduces propylene yield. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, but detailed studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking. Reversibility of catalysts on reaction and regeneration cycles remains unexplored.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and integrated process designs for practical implementation, focusing on iron sources, incorporation methods, and catalyst regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity across various catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based materials, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this through stable catalyst development and understanding deactivation mechanisms could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst, leading to a more selective reaction. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion, increases propylene yield, and reduces CO2 selectivity. N2O's presence above 300 ppm suggests a role in ODP through oxygen species from its dissociation, although it is less oxidant than O2. Pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity in ODP by modulating their oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering supports with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 addition significantly lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, deteriorating performance. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying cost-effective catalysts for N2O production, enhancing practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O as a gas dope modifies catalytic performance, increasing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations. However, at higher concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, and coke deposition limits catalyst lifetime. Addressing these requires in-depth research on deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing selectivity (Quote 1, 2). High propylene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species on the support (Quote 3). Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for selective oxidation and combustion, is facilitated by N2O over O2 (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers advantages over oxygen (O2), particularly in propylene selectivity. Studies on alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts show that N2O increases propene selectivity, attributed to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been characterized, revealing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. The critical challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by a 32% increase in selectivity for pure NiMoO4 catalysts, while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction under N2O boosts selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, which limit practicality, and catalyst deactivation. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and activity, possibly through new catalyst development or optimizing reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity, attributed to its reoxidation mechanism that avoids peroxovanadate formation, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration needing O2. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    