Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, placing catalytic sites in a more reduced state. Oxygen from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize selectivity, offering a strategy for catalytic reaction improvement.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), as observed across various catalysts. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. However, VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Further research is needed on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts to understand oxygen species from O2 and N2O, which can be identified using EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency compared to O2, yet doubles propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene selectivity, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, thanks to Fe-zeolites' monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, limits propene yield, with varying sensitivity in FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propylene yield. TEOM with GC aids in correlating deactivation with coking, yet lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ N2O oxidation studies over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability post-regeneration, necessitating further investigation to enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, up to 22% with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as optimizing iron incorporation and reaction conditions, are essential. Further research on catalysts with enhanced stability and process designs for regeneration could make N2O-ODHP more practical. Steam activation reduces deactivation, indicating the importance of acidity control in enhancing catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP leverages its potent greenhouse gas status, enhancing propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Iron-based catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5, and redox metals like vanadium, are pivotal. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stability improvements and deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP a viable option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion, while propylene yield increases. At higher concentrations, N2O, less oxidant than O2, can still induce ODHP. However, pure N2O leads to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is essential for regeneration. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity in ODHP by maintaining an adequate oxidation state, as indicated by the improved selectivity observed with NiMoO4/[Si,V]-MCM-41 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Reduced lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, requiring 1-2 lattice oxygen. More oxygen species favor waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen is involved in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the coordination of reactive oxygen species by iron in the zeolite. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with higher temperatures reducing deactivation rates. O2 addition drastically reduces C3H6 yields and selectivity, impacting propene production. Strategies to address these issues include optimizing reaction conditions, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and exploring efficient regeneration methods. Understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible active sites is crucial. A pure N2O source through cost-effective catalyst systems for low-temperature NH3 oxidation could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially increasing yield and reducing CO2. However, high N2O levels decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations can improve catalyst performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly calcined Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, exacerbated by propane's presence, complicating N2O conversion. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation and extend catalyst life, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to less favorable decomposition compared to O2 (Quote 1), and by optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen essential for propane and propene activation (Quote 4). High propene selectivity is achievable with well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support (Quote 3), addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges, making N2O-ODHP a viable option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O surpasses O2 in ODHP, enhancing propylene selectivity at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and propylene oxidation to COx, slightly lowering catalytic activity due to less effective VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is uniform across VOx species with N2O, unlike O2's variability with V2O5 nanoparticles. N2O's superiority is attributed to reduced surface oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propylene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, outperforming O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Propylene selectivity can triple with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity, with N2O's lower tendency towards direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, particularly on alumina and silica supports, due to its lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species. This results in higher propylene selectivity and reduced consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. N2O's lower oxidizing ability tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, especially due to lower ODP activity with N2O. Strategies to address these could involve developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Further research is needed to understand oxygen species mechanisms and develop new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, evidenced by increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are critical, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity (Quote 3, 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 5, 6), and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these involve developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its mesoporous structure from dealumination, which reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport. The TEOM, coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during gas-solid reactions, providing insights into deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by effectively reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration can be achieved through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, keeping sites reduced. Its O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, optimizing the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials compared to O2, due to slower reoxidation of VOx species, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, but N2O mitigates this effect. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst shows a turnover frequency of propane conversion of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, while N2O halves this frequency but doubles propene selectivity to 80% at 10% propane conversion. Further research is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41, as non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields 24% propene at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is due to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation limits Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying iron site sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are crucial for studying coke formation and deactivation mechanisms. Detailed investigations on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are needed, highlighting the necessity for advanced research to overcome limitations and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve remarkable propylene yields up to 22% at 643-773 K. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and in situ regeneration techniques. Research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates greenhouse gas, favoring iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Yet, rapid deactivation, chiefly by coke, curbs N2O's viability. Research must focus on stable catalysts, coke minimization, and deactivation insights for viable N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that induce ODHP. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, explaining improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Its lower reoxidation ability increases catalyst reduction, spatially separating active lattice oxygen, crucial for propylene selectivity. N2O's less favorable reoxidation compared to O2 reduces waste product formation. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene production. Atomic oxygen species from N2O support selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is key for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor role and the catalyst's reactive oxygen coordination. Coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield, but higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields lower C3H6 and decreases selectivity, increasing COx, negatively impacting intermediates essential for propene production. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less prone active sites, and developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, evidenced by enhanced propylene yield at lower N2O concentrations. However, higher N2O levels reduce selectivity and favor carbonaceous products. Catalyst deactivation and stability are key challenges, requiring optimized N2O concentration to modulate catalyst oxidation state and improve performance. Advanced research is essential to address these limitations and make N2O-ODHP a viable practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Iron-zeolites, notably calcined Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts. However, deactivation and complex N2O conversion in propane presence are challenges. Deactivation mechanisms and coke deposition limit catalyst lifetime. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and enhance longevity, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion (Quotes 1, 2). High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration using N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4). Advanced research is needed to address catalyst limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over O2, with similar propane conversion. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, slightly lowering catalytic activity due to reduced VOx site re-oxidation efficiency. Propylene selectivity is consistent for dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's preference for V2O5. N2O's advantage stems from lowered surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is essential to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. N2O's lower reoxidation ability results in a higher reduction degree of VOx species, enhancing propylene selectivity. The importance of direct propane oxidation and consecutive propylene oxidation to COx is higher with O2 than N2O, influencing catalytic performance. N2O avoids the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propylene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing that the specific surface area decreases with vanadium loading, and the degree of polymerization of VOx species is influenced by the support material. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, requiring strategies that focus on optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reduces propane and oxygen conversion, and lowers CO2 yield (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, improving selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding how N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption, promoting reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species, zeolite host, and acidity influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition show increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction as mentioned in [3] and [4], poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as seen in [8], and full restoration with oxygen are possible strategies. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Oxygen from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration offers a strategy to optimize selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. This occurs due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges involve catalyst deactivation, especially with V2O5 nanocrystallites, leading to decreased propene selectivity. Research indicates that non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Advanced studies are required to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, crucial for enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves high propene yields, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly challenges catalyst stability, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating sites with varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhances propylene selectivity. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits its practicality. While TEOM effectively monitors coking, it lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than O2, as reported by independent research groups. Iron zeolites, notably steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge, as indicated by studies showing strong deactivation. Strategies to address this include optimizing reaction conditions and catalyst formulations. Further research is needed on iron sources, catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrated process designs for practical implementation, as suggested by the literature on the role of acidity and iron impurities in the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Replacing oxygen with N2O boosts propylene yield, particularly with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 stands out for C3H6 production, while vanadium and molybdenum catalysts show promise. However, rapid deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms for N2O-ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O modifies ODHP catalytic performance, reducing propane and O2 conversion, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity, and decreasing CO2 production. At >300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2. N2O promotes a reduced state in catalytic sites, increasing selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in selectivity enhancement is attributed to its ability to inhibit non-selective sites, with O2 necessary for catalyst regeneration. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity, as evidenced by studies showing significant conversion and selectivity improvements under these conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is boosted by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 materials with well-dispersed VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation, requiring only one to two lattice oxygen. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, focusing on optimizing VOx species distribution and understanding the role of oxygen species in selectivity and COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite that coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields much lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, increasing yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, addressing limitations for practical implementation. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation remain, necessitating advanced research to overcome these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation compared to dioxygen ([2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts with enhanced performance after calcination ([3], [4]). However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductive nature, is a significant challenge ([5], [6]). The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is complex, lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime ([7], [8]). Advanced research is needed to address these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over N2O decomposition (Quotes 1, 2). High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation (Quote 4). Advanced research on catalyst stability and deactivation could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which limits direct propane oxidation and propene's over-oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity. N2O's positive effect is attributed to reducing surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times over O2, attributed to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, promoting higher catalyst reduction. This results in reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering a more selective pathway. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation. Studies over VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 materials confirm that replacing O2 with N2O increases propene selectivity, particularly for samples with bulk-like V2O5 species, due to the higher degree of catalyst reduction in the presence of N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing selectivity. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants for high selectivity and activity while maintaining stability. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propene selectivity. Strategies to address limitations include advanced catalyst design and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4 catalysts, improving selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Strategies to address these involve developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and potentially inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, with initial propene yields significantly higher than commercial zeolites. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. TEOM, coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, revealing deactivation patterns. Steam activation is critical for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposit, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating can aid, but full activity restoration requires O2. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, likely due to its ability to work in a more reduced state and restrict non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, tackling catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx sites' enhanced activity for propene oxidation with agglomeration and direct propane oxidation when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, though N2O mitigates these effects. Propene selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters. Experimental evidence suggests additional oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Research is needed to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst demonstrated a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, while N2O achieved 80% propene selectivity versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP yields 24% propene, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, thanks to its monooxygen donor specificity and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen (quote [1]). Iron zeolites excel in this process, but face deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield (quote [2]). In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms and carbonaceous deposit formation (quote [6]). However, there's a lack of in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites (quote [9]), highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst limitations and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and explore alternative iron sources to enhance deactivation resistance. Strategies should also consider integrated process designs for catalyst regeneration to make N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts, while addressing environmental concerns by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Fe-ZSM-5 excels in propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research must focus on stable catalysts and deactivation mechanisms to optimize N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODP) by promoting a reduced state in catalysts, enhancing selectivity. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At higher concentrations, N2O's dissociation yields oxygen species that induce ODP less oxidatively than O2. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen (O2) for regeneration. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity in ODP by modulating their oxidation state, as N2O alone leads to high carbon formation and catalyst reduction. Further research is needed to address these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen promoting selective oxidation. Advanced research is essential for addressing catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and the zeolite's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less prone active sites, and developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Its addition initially enhances propylene yield and selectivity, though higher concentrations can decrease selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Modulating promoter concentrations, like N2O, can improve oxide catalysts' oxidation state and catalytic performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability challenges require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation compared to dioxygen (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are promising catalysts for this process (Quote [3]). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote [5]) and the intricate N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote [6]) pose significant challenges. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and optimizing the concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for propane and propene activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support further boost selectivity. Replacing O2 with N2O optimizes oxygen concentration, improving ODHP performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, with similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, albeit reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in minimized direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity, with N2O reducing CO and CO2 formation. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, compared to oxygen (O2). This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is critical for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). Molybdenum reduction by N2O improves catalyst selectivity (Quotes 3, 7, 10). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability. Research should aim to develop more stable catalysts and optimize conditions for improved efficiency, making N2O-ODHP a viable practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities, and the more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which reduces carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating is possible, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, promoting a reduced state. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, aiding catalyst stability and addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. When V2O5 nanocrystallites are prevalent, propene selectivity decreases, but N2O lessens this impact. Recent studies suggest that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. Further research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, aiming to enhance catalyst stability and selectivity. For instance, with O2, propane conversion's turnover frequency was twice as high as with N2O, yet propene selectivity was significantly lower (50% vs. 80% at 10% propane conversion).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields high propene outputs with Fe-zeolites, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant hurdle, with Fe-beta deactivating more rapidly than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation involves a reduction in active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is imperative to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor boosts iron zeolites' efficiency in ODHP, enhancing propylene selectivity. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation, reducing propylene yield. Advanced research is needed, particularly in situ FTIR spectroscopy for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in zeolite catalysts. In situ investigations of N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are underexplored areas requiring attention. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, offers insights into coke formation but lacks information on the deactivation mechanism at the catalyst surface level. Complementary spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions are necessary to understand the deactivation of iron-containing zeolites in C3H8 + N2O reactions and subsequent regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a critical challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions. Advanced research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, design catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based materials, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, crucial for N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating catalysts to a more selective state, as per quote [3]. At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2, as stated in quote [5]. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration, as highlighted in quote [17]. N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the synergy of O2 and N2O modulates catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity, as quote [19] suggests. Advanced research is needed to optimize N2O concentration and O2 presence for practical ODHP implementation, addressing catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx species on the support and N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as it's less favorable than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen species favor propane to propene conversion, while excess oxygen promotes waste products. Atomic oxygen species are key for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 achieves high propene yields up to 25% at 723 K, attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields much lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O, and small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity and yield in ODHP, particularly in nickel molybdate catalysts at low concentrations, reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate catalyst oxidation state, addressing deactivation and stability issues. Further research on optimizing N2O concentration is needed for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, but deactivation remains a challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature. Research is vital to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by less favorable decomposition compared to O2, reducing active sites and boosting propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are vital for high selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane oxidation and propene to COx conversion due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This effect is linked to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion. Both highly dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show similar propene selectivity with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering advantages in propene selectivity and reduced COx formation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. N2O's lower oxidizing ability leads to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also impacts COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propylene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reducing propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide are employed, where N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Strategies to improve catalyst stability, such as using more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions, could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility. N2O's role in reducing molybdenum and controlling selectivity suggests potential for advanced catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, with mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O, suggesting potential strategies for advanced research to enhance catalyst stability and practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly from vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Partial regeneration is achievable with N2O at elevated temperatures, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, reducing vanadium reduction, and devising effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, keeping sites reduced and controlling oxidation state. Adjusting N2O concentration and promoter levels can optimize selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, by slowing VOx species reoxidation, reducing active lattice oxygen sites, and minimizing propene oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites below monolayer coverage. Agglomerization decreases selectivity, leading to direct propane oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 propane conversion turnover with O2, while N2O achieved half the conversion but 80% propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion, compared to 50% with O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP achieves high propene yields, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, with steam-activated Fe-zeolites yielding 24% propene. N2O's monooxygen donor role and iron forms' reactive oxygen coordination enhance dehydrogenation efficiency. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, which reveals sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is crucial to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, as noted in quote [1]. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, as mentioned in quote [2], hinders propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy (quote [7]) and TEOMGC (quote [6]) are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms and assessing catalyst reversibility. Advanced research, as suggested in quote [9], is needed to address the lack of studies on selective oxidation with N2O over iron-containing zeolites and to explore catalyst reusability, as highlighted in quote [10].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieving 22% yield. However, catalysts face deactivation due to coke formation, limiting stability. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst stability, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore alternative iron sources for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP leverages its potent greenhouse gas status, enhancing environmental benefits while significantly boosting propylene selectivity over oxygen, particularly with iron and vanadium catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 yield, but catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and deeper deactivation mechanism insights, aligning with advanced research needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by inducing a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species participate in the reaction, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, using pure N2O is not advisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst oxidation and regeneration in the presence of N2O, preventing quick deactivation. N2O's role, alongside O2, optimizes the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Its lower reoxidation ability increases catalyst reduction, spatially separating active lattice oxygen, crucial for propylene selectivity. N2O tunes selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials, enhancing propene selectivity compared to O2. Decreased lattice oxygen concentration favors propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 achieves high propene yields up to 25% at 723 K, excelling due to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation is a significant challenge, reducing propene yields. Higher temperatures, such as 773 K, mitigate deactivation rates, correlating with higher N2O conversion. O2 yields much lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O and decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing catalytic performance by reducing propane conversion and increasing propylene yield. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates catalyst oxidation state, improving performance. However, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are key catalysts (Quote [3]). Challenges include catalyst deactivation (Quote [5]) and complex N2O conversion in propane presence (Quote [6]). Research on deactivation mechanisms and stable catalysts could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration due to its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, as per Quote 1 and 2. High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species, as stated in Quote 3. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, as in Quote 4, is key for selective oxidation, making N2O a promising oxidant. However, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces catalytic activity by less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is unaffected by VOx dispersion or V2O5 nanoparticle crystallinity. N2O's benefit is linked to reduced surface oxygen density, favoring propylene over combustion at lower densities. Research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly evident in catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O's lower tendency for direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx results in improved initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Studies show higher initial propene selectivity with N2O across various vanadium oxides. The degree of vanadium site reduction and the nature of oxygen species play a critical role in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation remains a challenge, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts due to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in lower ODP activity. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical, especially with the need for controlled surface density of active oxygen species. Strategies could involve optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation and developing catalysts that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, reduces CO2 yield, and promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. However, it decreases propane conversion and CO2 yield, posing practical challenges. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical. Research directions include enhancing catalyst stability, developing more active/selective catalysts, and optimizing reaction conditions. N2O and -Sb2O4 may synergistically control selectivity and inhibit non-selective sites, offering potential in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its mesoporous structure from dealumination, which reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a critical challenge [3], [5]. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring oxygen [8]. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and minimizing vanadium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Concentration adjustments of N2O can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, as evidenced across iron zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing catalysts. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, but N2O mitigates this. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation, unlike N2O. Prior VOx/MCM-41 studies showed higher propene selectivity (80%) with N2O versus O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is proposed to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, addressing the need for advanced research to overcome catalyst limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP showcases superior propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest among studied zeolites. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying coke sensitivity among active iron sites. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. The TEOM technique with GC analysis effectively tracks coking and deactivation, yet lacks insight into surface-level mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is pivotal for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, essential for understanding ODHP. Detailed in situ studies on N2O oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are required, as these areas are underexplored. Characterization methods like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption can assess catalyst reversibility post-regeneration, as indicated by infrared results complemented by TEOMGC experiments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants, with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 achieving up to 22% yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and employing in situ regeneration techniques. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrating regeneration steps for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP leverages its greenhouse gas status, enhancing propylene selectivity, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts. Iron-based catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5, and redox metals excel in this process. However, rapid deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is needed for stable catalysts and optimized conditions to minimize coke, addressing key challenges for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, leading to a more selective reaction. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O's presence above 300 ppm suggests a role in ODP through oxygen species from its dissociation. However, pure N2O is not advisable due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, explaining high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP, as evidenced by enhanced propylene yield and selectivity when N2O is added to the reaction feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is optimized by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, with N2O's lower reoxidation ability further boosting propene selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen prefer propene over COx, while more oxygen species promote waste products. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are suggested for selective oxidation, with polyatomic species linked to COx formation, as per quote [8].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propylene yield at 723 K, due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke formation limits catalyst stability, with slower deactivation at higher temperatures. O2 significantly reduces C3H6 yields and increases COx production. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with nickel molybdate catalysts enhancing performance. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates catalyst oxidation state, affecting selectivity and product formation. Higher N2O levels decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2 (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote [3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle, intensified by propane's reductive effect, complicating N2O conversion (Quotes [5] and [6]). Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms (Quote [7]), develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to curb coke deposition, enhancing catalyst longevity for practical N2O-ODHP (Quote [8]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by favoring propene formation over propane conversion, due to less favorable N2O decomposition compared to O2. This reduces active sites and increases propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface boost selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This effect, linked to reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favors selective propene formation over combustion. However, N2O's weaker re-oxidation ability decreases catalytic activity. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, attributed to its reduced re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction, particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O significantly curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is imperative to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by optimizing the catalyst structure and composition to enhance stability and selectivity. Strategies for practical implementation could involve developing methods to regenerate deactivated catalysts and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by promoting molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4 catalysts (Quotes [3], [7]). It decreases propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield compared to other oxidants (Quote [2]). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide are used, with -Sb2O4 controlling selectivity and N2O inhibiting oxygen adsorption, promoting reduction (Quotes [8], [10]). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a challenge, with FeZSM-5 exhibiting notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and extraframework iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Catalysts with higher iron content show significantly higher initial activities. The rapid deactivation in FeBEA is linked to its structure. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation, as atomic oxygen can partially regenerate the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating and full restoration with O2 are viable strategies. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration techniques to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Dissociated O from N2O oxidizes propane to propene, curbing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize selectivity, tackling catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, as evidenced across diverse catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based materials (Quote [1]). The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O leads to reduced active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (Quote [3]). Selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, with N2O mitigating this effect (Quote [8]). Prior studies show N2O yields higher propene selectivity at half the propane conversion rate compared to O2 (Quote [14]). Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, focusing on the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene production, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites, specifically steam-activated ones, excel in this process, achieving 24% propene yields at high temperatures. N2O's monooxygen donor property and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation are key advantages. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly by coke, is a significant challenge, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. The complex process of deactivation involves a decrease in active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, thanks to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation significantly reduces propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy are essential for studying coke formation and catalyst deactivation, revealing the need for detailed in situ investigations to understand deactivation mechanisms and catalyst regeneration in N2O-ODHP processes. Research gaps include the lack of in situ studies on hydrocarbon oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and the extent of catalyst reusability after regeneration, highlighting the need for further exploration to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants, as reported by independent research groups. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve remarkable propylene yields up to 22%. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing reaction conditions and developing more stable catalyst formulations. Further research on iron sources, catalyst design, and integrated process designs with regeneration steps could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Replacing O2 with N2O boosts propylene yield, especially with Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is crucial for improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP a viable option. Strategies should focus on developing robust catalysts and optimizing conditions to curb coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O explain the improved selectivity in ODHP, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. This suggests a potential strategy for enhancing propylene yield while addressing catalyst stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and N2O's lower reoxidation ability improve selectivity. Active sites with fewer lattice oxygen species favor propene production, while excess oxygen promotes CO and CO2 formation. Atomic oxygen aids selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen contributes to COx formation, highlighting the role of oxygen species in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propene yield. Increasing temperature to 773 K reduces deactivation rates, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, and small additions decrease C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less susceptible active sites, aiming to create cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with optimal results at lower concentrations, enhancing propylene yield and reducing CO2. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Modulating promoter concentrations, like N2O, improves catalyst performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability pose significant challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are potent catalysts, with calcination enhancing performance. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's effect on N2O conversion, is a critical issue. The unclear deactivation mechanism and coke deposition limit catalyst longevity. Research is needed to clarify deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke and extend catalyst life, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in reduced catalytic activity, as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2 where V2O5 lacks selectivity. N2O's advantage lies in lowering the surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, attributed to its reduced re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher selectivity with N2O, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impact selectivity and activity. Catalysts with higher reduction degree exhibit improved selectivity, but consecutive propene oxidation is influenced by factors beyond reduction degree. Transient experiments with 18O2 confirm the role of oxygen species in selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the higher reduction degree of VOx species, crucial for high propylene yield. N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, enhancing selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization degree influences consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, requiring strategies to control active oxygen species' surface density and optimize conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a practical industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity and reduces CO2 yield (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, improving catalyst selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to address these involve developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity due to its unique reoxidation mechanism that avoids peroxovanadate formation, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge [3], [5]. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring oxygen [8]. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, likely preventing non-selective oxygen species formation and controlling oxidation state. N2O-derived O2 specifically oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy for optimization. Research on catalyst stability and deactivation is critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials (1,2). This effect is also seen in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide (2). N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (3). Challenges include VOx agglomerization affecting propene oxidation activity and catalyst deactivation (6,8). Research is needed to identify oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41, crucial for understanding catalyst behavior and improving selectivity and stability (9).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene selectivity, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, thanks to Fe-zeolites' capability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation by coke, particularly in Fe-beta, poses a significant challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. FeZSM-5 exhibits varying coke sensitivity among active iron sites, indicating complex deactivation mechanisms. Advanced research is imperative to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (quote [1]). However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke (quote [2]) hinders propylene yield. Advanced methods like TEOM and GC (quote [3]) study coking but lack insights into surface-level deactivation (quote [5]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy (quote [7]) is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (quote [8]). Research gaps include in situ N2O oxidation studies over iron zeolites (quote [9]) and catalyst reusability (quote [10]). Complementary spectroscopic studies and analysis techniques (quotes [6], [11]-[12]) are suggested to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, notably 22% with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, but deactivation is slower over steam-activated zeolites. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing coke formation, and exploring alternative iron sources for improved resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP leverages its potent greenhouse gas status, enhancing propylene selectivity, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating O2 for regeneration. N2O's role is to inhibit non-selective sites, and the presence of both O2 and N2O together improves selectivity by modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during the reaction, as evidenced by the results obtained with NiMoO4/[Si,V]-MCM-41 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation [1]. Selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species, further boosted by N2O [3]. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2 [5]. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation [6]. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 boosts propylene yields, thanks to its monooxygen donor specificity and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to significant catalyst deactivation, reducing propylene yield. Higher temperatures, notably 773 K, mitigate deactivation rates, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields lower C3H6 compared to N2O, and its addition decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address deactivation include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation by providing a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, excels in propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as evidenced by its enhanced catalytic performance with nickel molybdate catalysts. At low N2O concentrations, propylene yield and selectivity increase, while propane conversion, oxygen consumption, and CO2 yield decrease. Higher N2O levels reduce propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations can improve catalyst performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, particularly after severe calcination, excel in N2O-ODHP. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicates N2O conversion. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing catalyst lifetime for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, crucial for practical implementation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces catalytic activity by less effectively re-oxidizing surface VOx. Propene selectivity is consistent regardless of VOx species dispersion when N2O is used. The benefit of N2O lies in lowering the surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP, outperforming O2 by up to three times, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's reduced re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is imperative to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, compared to oxygen (O2). This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx, increasing propylene selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of VOx species and their degree of polymerization influence catalytic performance. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx, unlike O2. Advanced research is needed to develop strategies addressing catalyst deactivation and stability, focusing on catalyst design and reaction conditions that enhance selectivity and stability for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction under N2O boosts catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, indicating practical limitations. Research is needed for advanced catalysts with improved stability and selectivity. Optimizing reaction conditions could enhance catalyst performance, making N2O-ODHP more viable. The presence of Mo5+ under N2O suggests a more selective catalyst state, while -Sb2O4 and N2O may play similar roles in controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are critical for activity. FeZSM-5 shows notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing the impact of zeolite structure on deactivation rates. Steam activation enhances catalytic activities, and the presence of mesopores in FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and slows deactivation. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and resistance to coke formation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over other oxidants, as it reoxidizes vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is possible through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and exploring alternative regeneration methods to overcome limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its oxygen, produced by dissociation, selectively oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability, advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation rises with agglomerization, yet selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, dropping with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst limitations, focusing on the nature and structure of oxygen species over VOx/MCM-41. Prior studies on this catalyst showed higher propene selectivity with N2O, despite lower propane conversion, highlighting the need for further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP showcases superior propene yields, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, thanks to Fe-zeolites' monooxygen donor specificity and reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, hinders performance, involving active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is imperative to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to its specificity as a mono-oxygen donor, enhancing propane dehydrogenation through iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation significantly impacts propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst regeneration and reusability, as in situ studies on selective oxidation with N2O over iron-containing zeolites are lacking (Quote [6], [9]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield (Quote 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 6) limits stability. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions. Further research on iron sources, catalyst design, and integrated process designs could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility. Steam-activated zeolites show slower deactivation (Quote 20), suggesting the importance of acidity in ODHP (Quote 23).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, notably with iron-zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 excels but faces rapid deactivation, chiefly due to coke. Research aims to stabilize catalysts, reduce coke formation, and engineer deactivation-resistant catalysts, crucial for N2O's practical ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O promotes a reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less effectively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst regeneration in the presence of N2O, preventing quick deactivation. These findings highlight N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and its synergy with O2 for optimal catalyst oxidation state, critical for enhanced selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with VOx species fully covering supports and N2O's use as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, while excess oxygen promotes waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with optimal performance at moderate concentrations. Adjusting promoter levels, like N2O, enhances catalyst performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation and stability issues hinder practical implementation, necessitating advanced research to overcome these limitations and make N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP, showing enhanced performance post-calcination. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive properties, poses a significant challenge. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing robust catalysts, and optimizing conditions to curb coke deposition is vital for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion (Quotes [1], [2]). High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote [3]). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration using N2O over O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote [4]).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but favors propylene formation. The positive effect is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, promoting selective propylene production over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, as evidenced by studies on VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. The selectivity can triple, attributed to N2O's diminished capacity to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree, especially with bulk-like V2O5. N2O curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, underlining the need for advanced research to make N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. N2O's lower oxidizing ability tunes the reduction degree of vanadium species, spatially separating active lattice oxygen species and reducing active oxygen species' surface density. This is essential for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower activity compared to O2 presents a challenge. Strategies include optimizing catalyst structure for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Advanced research is needed to define oxygen species' nature over reduced VOx species and develop catalysts maintaining high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, as evidenced by studies showing increased selectivity and reduced CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4, -Sb2O4 mixtures, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical implementation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and reducing deactivation, potentially through more stable catalysts or optimized conditions. -Sb2O4 and N2O may have similar roles in controlling NiMoO4 selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, as indicated by studies showing no significant increase in propylene selectivity when N2O is added to the NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixture.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, crucial for activity, are generated during steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which rapidly deactivates due to coke formation. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation, highlighting the importance of steam activation for high catalytic activities. Fe-zeolites with higher iron content show significantly higher initial activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and slows deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation, suggesting a potential for regeneration. Further research is needed to address limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full recovery requiring O2. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and devising effective regeneration strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Its oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Concentration adjustments of N2O can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process and address catalyst deactivation and stability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to O2. This is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges arise with V2O5 nanocrystallites, causing a drop in propene selectivity. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, as N2O forms fewer non-lattice oxygen species contributing to COx formation. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and explore their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, aiding in developing more stable and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields 24% propene with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than other Fe-zeolites, indicating varying iron site sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, rapid deactivation by coke formation on iron zeolites limits propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is essential for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding deactivation mechanisms. Advanced research is needed for detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and to assess catalyst reversibility post-regeneration using XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption (Quotes [7], [12]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to conventional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Further research is needed to optimize catalyst formulations and reaction conditions, enhancing stability and resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts, as noted in [2]. Iron-based materials, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 yield [3]. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation [4], limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to enhance stability and understand deactivation mechanisms [5], aiming to make N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity (Quote 3). It inhibits non-selective propane activation, reducing conversion while increasing selectivity (Quote 8). At higher concentrations, N2O's dissociation products suggest its ability to induce ODHP (Quote 5). However, pure N2O is not advisable as O2 is crucial for catalyst regeneration and to prevent rapid deactivation (Quote 17). N2O's role, alongside O2, fully explains the improved selectivity in ODHP by modulating the catalyst's oxidation state (Quote 19).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting catalyst reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is boosted by fully covering the support with well-dispersed VOx species and employing N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, while more oxygen species promote waste products. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species linked to selective oxidation and polyatomic species to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing improved stability at 773 K. Oxygen's presence drastically lowers propene yields and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction conditions, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen in nickel molybdate catalysts where low N2O concentrations increase propylene yield and selectivity. Higher concentrations, however, reduce selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates catalyst oxidation state, enhancing performance. Catalyst deactivation and stability challenges require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for this process (Quote [3]). However, catalyst deactivation, affecting both N2O and dioxygen reactions, is a major hurdle (Quote [5]). The intricate conversion of N2O on iron-zeolites and the unclear deactivation mechanisms (Quote [7]) complicate practical implementation. Research priorities should include elucidating deactivation mechanisms, developing robust catalysts, and optimizing conditions to curb coke deposition and enhance catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over O2, as its decomposition reduces active sites, favoring propene formation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for high selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and consecutive propylene oxidation to COx, slightly lowering catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's benefit stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O effectively curbs direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, thereby improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, due to a higher degree of reduction of VOx species. This is critical for achieving high propylene selectivity, as demonstrated in recent studies. However, N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also impacts COx formation, with N2O avoiding the production of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with the formation of nonselective oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations could involve optimizing catalyst structure for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, improving catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and reduce deactivation could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality. Studies show that adding N2O to NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixtures decreases propane conversion and CO2 yield but increases propylene selectivity. The mechanism suggests N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which boosts carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly from vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge, with carbon deposits playing a minor role. Partial catalyst regeneration is achievable through N2O heating, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    