Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Dissociated oxygen from N2O oxidizes propane to propene. Modulating N2O concentration can enhance selectivity, aiding catalyst stability and practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with V2O5 nanocrystallites causing a drop in propene selectivity. Research suggests other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Studies on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show N2O yields higher propene selectivity at half the propane conversion rate compared to O2, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs (24%), matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Steam-activated Fe-zeolites are crucial, with N2O's monooxygen donation enhancing propane dehydrogenation efficiency. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propene yield, requiring regeneration. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, revealing varying sensitivity to coke. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in iron zeolites boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, a key advantage in ODHP. However, coke formation significantly deactivates these catalysts, reducing propylene yield. In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy offer insights into deactivation mechanisms, crucial for improving catalyst stability and reversibility. Advanced research is needed to fully understand the deactivation process and enhance the reusability of regenerated catalysts, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as evidenced by recent studies. Iron zeolites, especially when steam-activated, are effective catalysts, achieving remarkable propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge, as seen in the rapid deactivation of iron zeolites. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to overcome these limitations, making N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP harnesses this potent greenhouse gas, enhancing environmental sustainability, and significantly boosts propylene selectivity, especially with iron and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality compared to softer oxidants. Advanced research is imperative to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, crucial for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), by reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. Its mechanism involves promoting a more reduced state of catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that can induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen, which is crucial for catalyst regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODHP are key to understanding its benefits and limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Decreased lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen atoms promote CO and CO2 formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at high temperatures, outperforming O2, which produces <5% propene. N2O's efficiency is attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability in zeolites to coordinate reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. Oxygen addition decreases propene selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting intermediates essential for propene production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore mechanisms of coke formation and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with low N2O concentrations enhancing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Higher concentrations, however, decrease selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations, such as N2O, can improve catalyst performance and address stability and deactivation issues, highlighting the need for advanced research to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which often leads to CO and CO2 formation, reducing olefin yields. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with enhanced performance post-calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a major issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is intricate, lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to less favorable N2O decomposition compared to O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for propane and propene activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that curbs direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2 where V2O5 lacks selectivity. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP by reducing VOx species re-oxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction degree. This results in up to three times higher selectivity than O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact selectivity and activity. Challenges involve catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, unlike O2, which catalyzes nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, with N2O's lower oxidizing ability affecting the reoxidation of reduced VOx species. Strategies include optimizing catalyst structure for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to define the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O over reduced VOx species and to develop new catalyst formulations for N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, using catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixtures or palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides. Its addition significantly boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical. Strategies could involve developing more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions. Quotes highlight that N2O's role is akin to -Sb2O4 in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, promoting molybdenum in a reduced state for better selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, are generated by steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a major drawback. TEOM, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation, providing advantages over conventional gravimetric microbalances. Steam activation is critical for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Direct N2O decomposition activity is higher in FeZSM-5 than in Fe-silicalite. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can react with coke, leading to COx and partial catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and deactivation resistance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration is achievable with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity restoration requires O2. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, creating a more reduced state for catalytic sites. The oxygen from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Slower VOx reoxidation with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, curbing propene over-oxidation. Challenges arise from increased VOx site activity with higher agglomerization, reducing selectivity when V2O5 nanocrystallites are dominant. Research indicates non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation, crucial for advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP yields high propylene selectivity, with steam-activated Fe-zeolites achieving 24% propylene yield at high temperatures, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species facilitate this. However, catalyst deactivation, notably coke formation, reduces propylene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest among Fe-zeolites. Research is needed to address deactivation, involving reduced active sites, site quality, and pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites rapidly deactivate due to coke buildup, reducing propylene yield (Quote [2]). The TEOM technique coupled with GC analysis effectively monitors coking and deactivation, but in situ FTIR spectroscopy is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and coke formation on the catalyst surface (Quote [6]). Advanced research is essential to address these limitations, including in situ investigations of selective oxidation with N2O over iron-containing zeolites, which have not been reported (Quote [9]), and detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, notably with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieving up to 22% yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as catalyst regeneration and optimizing reaction conditions, are essential. Further research should explore the role of acidity in deactivation and enhance catalyst resistance for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP leverages its greenhouse gas status for environmental gain and enhances propylene selectivity, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and a deeper understanding of deactivation, as highlighted in quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, increasing propylene yield while decreasing CO2 production. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, further promoting ODHP. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst oxidation and regeneration in the presence of N2O, preventing rapid deactivation. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and its synergy with O2 for optimal catalyst oxidation state are essential for improved selectivity in ODHP, suggesting promising research directions to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation and promoting spatial separation of VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) using FeZSM-5 catalysts yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling over O2 due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate this issue by slowing deactivation and enhancing N2O conversion. O2's presence decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less deactivating active sites, and creating cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced by its performance in other oxidation reactions. With nickel molybdate catalysts, N2O boosts propylene yield and selectivity, reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize catalyst performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability issues hinder practical implementation, necessitating advanced research to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are key catalysts, though deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive properties, is a hurdle. Research on deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to curb coke formation is vital for N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced overall activity but increased propene formation vs. O2. N2O's less favorable decomposition decreases active sites, boosting selectivity. High propene selectivity is achieved with vanadia species fully covering the support. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, particularly for VOx species on MCM-41 catalysts. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O but are non-selective with O2. N2O's benefit stems from reducing surface oxygen density, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in minimized direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is required to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in a higher reduction degree of VOx species, suppressing nonselective consecutive propylene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propylene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propylene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODHP activity compared to O2. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with N2O helping to mitigate these by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation, focusing on understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased selectivity and reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield. It facilitates molybdenum reduction, improving catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions. -Sb2O4 controls selectivity, and N2O may inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities, and the more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP boosts propene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, a major hurdle, is chiefly due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits, as noted in [3] and [5]. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full recovery needing oxygen, as shown in [8]. Research should concentrate on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing advanced regeneration techniques to make N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, leading to a more reduced state of catalytic sites. Oxygen from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a viable area for advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, as observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Kinetic analysis shows slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity. At low vanadium surface concentration, propene selectivities are similar with both oxidants, but at higher concentrations, N2O mitigates the drop in selectivity and direct propane oxidation better than O2. Experimentally, N2O showed half the propane conversion turnover frequency of O2 but doubled propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields high propene selectivity, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, thanks to Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation, notably by coke, poses a significant challenge, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, FeZSM-5 showing sites with differing coke sensitivity. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking but lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and detailed studies on catalyst reusability. Characterization methods like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption are essential for evaluating catalyst reversibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than conventional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5, exhibit superior performance, with iron impurities boosting propylene selectivity (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and explore alternative iron sources to enhance the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP harnesses a potent greenhouse gas, enhancing propylene selectivity over oxygen, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts. Iron-based and redox metal catalysts are effective, but deactivation, chiefly by coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Research aims to boost stability and elucidate deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield, as evidenced by its ability to modify catalytic performances (Quote 2). It promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity (Quote 3). At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, albeit less oxidizing than O2 (Quote 5). This improvement in selectivity due to N2O opens prospects for selective mesoporous catalysts (Quote 6). However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is crucial for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O's role includes inhibiting non-selective sites and modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity in ODHP, as the presence of both O2 and N2O fully explains the better selectivity (Quote 19).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting selective oxidation over COx formation, and improving selectivity with well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3. Its lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, and reduced active lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propane oxidation to propene. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical implementation, necessitating advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, reducing propene yields. Increasing temperature to 773 K slows deactivation, correlating with higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant leads to much lower C3H6 yields compared to N2O. Adding O2 to the C3H8+N2O mixture decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less susceptible catalysts, and developing cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially lowering propane conversion but enhancing propylene yield and selectivity. It reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Higher N2O concentrations can decrease propylene selectivity and increase carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, may improve catalyst stability and performance, addressing key challenges in the N2O-ODHP process, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP, exhibiting enhanced performance post-calcination (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) pose significant hurdles. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and the absence of methods to prevent coke deposition (Quote 8) limit catalyst longevity. Research should target understanding deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation and maximize catalyst lifetime, enhancing the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion due to its weaker oxidizing potential. Propene selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's benefit is attributed to lowering surface lattice oxygen density in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP, outperforming O2 by up to three times, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation. Strategies should concentrate on optimizing catalyst properties and elucidating the role of oxygen species in oxidation pathways.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but enhances propylene selectivity by suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of VOx species and their degree of polymerization influence catalytic performance. N2O reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which are formed from O2 and catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research to develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and to optimize reaction conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Strategies include understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide catalysts, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction, improve selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, alongside catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions for better activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its iron constitution and porous structure. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are remarkable. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation due to coke. TEOM, coupled with GC analysis, correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition resist coke deactivation, potentially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise leads to carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial regeneration can be achieved by heating under N2O at high temperatures, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, reducing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. This curbs non-selective oxygen species and controls catalyst oxidation, vital for selectivity. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical. N2O's dissociated O directly oxidizes propane to propene, further enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based materials, outperforming O2. This is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to fewer active lattice oxygen sites and reduced propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, especially with increased agglomerization affecting propene selectivity. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, aiming to optimize catalysts for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propylene (24%) with Fe-zeolites, matching V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propylene yield, though regeneration in pure oxygen can restore activity. Deactivation rates vary among Fe-zeolites, with FeZSM-5 showing diverse iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species' coordination of reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke (Quote 2) challenges propylene yield. In situ FTIR spectroscopy (Quote 7) and TEOMGC (Quote 11) are promising for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding deactivation mechanisms (Quote 6). The reusability of regenerated catalysts (Quote 10) remains unexplored, highlighting a research gap. Advanced studies are needed to address catalyst limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites exhibit superior propylene yields compared to other preparation methods. Iron impurities in steamed commercial H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and incorporate in situ regeneration techniques. Further exploration of iron sources, catalyst design, and integrated process designs could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates environmental impact by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based materials and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is essential to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O isn't viable for ODHP as molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst regeneration, preventing rapid deactivation. N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the synergy of O2 and N2O modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, crucial for improved selectivity. [2] [3] [4] [5] [17] [19]", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, while more oxygen promotes waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen involved in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, slow deactivation due to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O, and small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production. Strategies to address deactivation include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less susceptible active sites. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhances nickel molybdate catalysts' performance, and allows modulation of catalyst oxidation state for improved stability. Adjusting N2O concentration is key to addressing deactivation challenges. Further research is essential for optimizing N2O concentration for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductive effect on N2O conversion, is a significant challenge. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is complex, and methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime are needed. Research into these areas could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to less favorable decomposition compared to O2, as per quote [2]. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support, as noted in quote [3], boost propene selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved with N2O (quote [4]), controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane oxidation and propene to COx conversion due to its weaker oxidizing potential. Despite lower catalytic activity, N2O ensures consistent propylene selectivity across VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. The benefit is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species. Studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show that the higher degree of catalyst reduction in the presence of N2O boosts propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity, with N2O reducing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability remains critical for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP, necessitating advanced research to overcome these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is critical for high selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influence COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, as per quotes 2 and 5. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity (quote 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, impacting practicality. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and reducing deactivation, potentially through more stable catalysts or optimized conditions. Synergistic effects of -Sb2O4 and N2O on NiMoO4's selectivity are noted, with N2O inhibiting oxygen adsorption and promoting molybdenum reduction (quotes 8 and 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, with initial propene yields significantly higher than commercial zeolites despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Remarkable propionaldehyde yields (up to 6%) are obtained. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities, and the more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to mesopores from dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Carbonaceous deposits play a minor role in deactivation. Partial catalyst regeneration is achievable through high-temperature N2O treatment, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing effective regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state that curbs non-selective oxygen species and controls catalyst oxidation. Dissociated O from N2O specifically oxidizes propane to propene, offering selectivity benefits. Adjusting promoter concentration is a promising strategy to fine-tune selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. This is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and minimizing propene oxidation to COx. High propene selectivity is maintained as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage. When V2O5 nanocrystallites are predominant, propene selectivity decreases, but N2O lessens this impact. A recent study indicates that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is scarce. The VOx/MCM-41 catalyst, previously tested in ODHP, exhibits a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, while N2O halves this frequency but doubles propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is employed to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41 and evaluate their reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene (24%) with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, diminishes propene yield. Advanced research is essential to mitigate deactivation and enhance catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in iron zeolites enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, boosting propylene selectivity. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propylene yield, posing a major challenge. Advanced research, including in situ spectroscopic studies, is essential to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst stability, addressing limitations for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, notably with iron zeolites, achieving up to 22% yield with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge to stability. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation. Steam activation reduces deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites, as observed in the improved performance of steamed iron zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP leverages this potent greenhouse gas, enhancing propylene selectivity notably with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium catalysts (Quote 2). Iron-based catalysts, especially Fe-ZSM-5, excel in propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation (Quote 4), hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this through stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and improved deactivation resistance could make N2O-ODHP viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, enhancing yield while reducing propane and O2 conversion. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP. Its presence shifts catalytic sites to a more reduced state, promoting selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP. Research should focus on catalysts that maintain stability and selectivity in the presence of N2O, addressing the need for O2 for regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is optimized by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms favor propene over COx formation. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, whereas polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms other oxidants in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation limits performance. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower propene and negatively impacts propene intermediates. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing nickel molybdate catalysts' performance. Modulating N2O concentration optimizes catalysts' oxidation state, tackling stability and deactivation issues. Further research on N2O concentration is crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation, as per quote [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are crucial catalysts, as stated in quote [3]. Catalyst deactivation, highlighted in quote [5], is a significant challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion. The unclear deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP, as mentioned in quote [7], lacks effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst life, as quote [8] indicates. Advanced research on deactivation, catalyst stability, and reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion (Quotes [1], [2]). High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote [3]). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration using N2O over O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote [4]). Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propene selectivity across different VOx species by reducing the surface density of active oxygen, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, offering up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction. N2O also curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity. Despite these advantages, catalyst stability and deactivation remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, particularly on alumina and silica supports, due to its lower oxidizing ability, which increases the reduction degree of vanadium species. This is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are more significant with O2 than N2O, impacting catalytic performance. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, necessitating strategies like controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimized reaction conditions favoring selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms, their role in selectivity, and to develop new catalyst formulations that sustain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, with palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are pivotal, where N2O promotes molybdenum reduction for better selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, alongside catalyst deactivation. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and optimize conditions, potentially making N2O-ODHP a practical reality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a significant challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The nature of these species, the zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation behavior. FeZSM-5 and FeBEA outperform commercial zeolites in initial propene yield, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are achieved. FeMFI zeolites face deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is vital for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as evidenced by [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposit formation as noted in [3] and [5], poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen, as shown in [8]. Research efforts should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing effective regeneration techniques to advance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state (1,2). Its dissociated O oxidizes propane selectively to propene (4). Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, optimizing the process (5). Challenges like catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops with vanadium agglomerization, but N2O mitigates total propane oxidation better than O2. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation, highlighting the need for experimental evidence on oxygen species from N2O and O2 reoxidation. N2O halves propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2, as demonstrated in kinetic studies. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, offering a path for advanced research to overcome limitations in catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene (24%) with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, limits performance. FeZSM-5 exhibits varied deactivation, suggesting different iron site sensitivities. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is imperative to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, affecting propylene yield. Advanced in situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms, yet detailed studies on N2O-ODHP with iron zeolites are scarce. The reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored, underscoring the need for comprehensive research to address these limitations and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity and lower operation temperatures. Iron zeolites, notably steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced research is essential for practical implementation, focusing on catalyst design and process integration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP leverages its potent greenhouse gas properties, enhancing propylene selectivity over oxygen, as per quote [2]. Iron and vanadium-based catalysts excel in this process, noted in quote [3]. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation (quote [4]), limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this, as quote [5] indicates, requires improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and enhancing resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by promoting a more selective catalyst state, inhibiting non-selective propane activation, and limiting CO2 formation. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, using pure N2O is unadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in enhancing selectivity is attributed to its ability to inhibit non-selective sites and synergize with O2, maintaining the catalyst's optimal oxidation state. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation. Selectivity improves with VOx species coverage and N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration aids selective propane oxidation to propylene over COx formation. Active sites with excess lattice oxygen favor waste products. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) using FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is linked to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, slow deactivation due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant significantly lowers propene yields compared to N2O, with small additions decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less susceptible active sites, aiming to create cost-effective, pure N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, with nickel molybdate catalysts enhancing yield and selectivity at low N2O concentrations. However, high N2O concentrations decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations can modulate catalyst oxidation state, improving performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO/CO2, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts, with enhanced performance post-calcination. Catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductant effect, complicates N2O conversion. Unclear deactivation mechanisms and coke deposition limit catalyst lifespan. Research on deactivation, stable catalysts, and coke minimization is vital for N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity by minimizing strong propene adsorption. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved with N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This lower activity boosts selectivity by reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles and dispersed VOx species show similar propene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2, highlighting N2O's role in selectivity enhancement. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing the re-oxidation of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and up to three times greater propylene yield compared to O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. The nature of oxygen species from N2O influences selectivity and activity, minimizing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, thus enhancing initial propene selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity than O2. N2O reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly related to the degree of reduction and the nature of oxygen species, are critical challenges. Advanced research is needed to develop strategies that can address these limitations, such as optimizing catalyst structure and composition to enhance stability and selectivity, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, reducing propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide, are key, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and exploring new catalysts for higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity, akin to -Sb2O4, suggests synergistic effects in mixed catalysts (Quote 10). Understanding these mechanisms could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are remarkable. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities, with extraframework iron species responsible for propane oxydehydrogenation. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2, which boosts propene yield. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and promoting a more reduced catalyst state, which limits non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen generated from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration offers a strategy to optimize selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as studies (1-3) confirm. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, curbing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation rises with agglomerization. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O (9). Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O (10). A study aimed to identify oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 (11-12), finding propane conversion turnover frequency was 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, half with N2O, but propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50% (13-14). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions revealed oxygen species' reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO (15).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP yields 24% initial propene at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research to address these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as exemplified in iron zeolites' superior performance [1]. However, coke formation significantly deactivates these catalysts, diminishing propylene yield [2]. Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor coke deposition and surface changes, but they lack insights into deactivation mechanisms. Research is essential to understand iron zeolites' deactivation in C3H8 + N2O reactions and catalyst regeneration [6]. In situ studies could clarify the ODHP reaction under process conditions, while the reusability of regenerated catalysts remains a critical area for further exploration. Complementary analyses using XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption can assess catalyst reversibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions to minimize coke, and explore alternative iron sources. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Further studies are required to understand the role of acidity and improve catalyst resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP harnesses a potent greenhouse gas, enhancing propylene selectivity over oxygen, particularly with iron zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 yield. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, often due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and deeper deactivation insights.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, enhancing yield while reducing propane and oxygen conversion. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP. It promotes a more selective state in catalytic sites. However, pure N2O causes catalyst deactivation; molecular oxygen is essential for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx species on the support and N2O's lower reoxidation ability, reducing active surface lattice oxygen and favoring propane to propene conversion. Active sites with excess lattice oxygen promote waste product formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 showcases superior propene yields, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, deteriorating performance. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over O2, evident at low N2O concentrations. Higher concentrations, however, reduce selectivity and yield carbonaceous products. Optimizing N2O concentration is crucial for enhanced propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Iron-zeolites, especially Fe-ZSM-5, are key catalysts for this process. However, catalyst deactivation and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane pose significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism and coke deposition limit catalyst lifetime. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites, favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface further improve selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for high-performance ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This mechanism, detailed in the quote, involves reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) significantly boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), as it less effectively re-oxidizes reduced vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and up to three times greater propylene selectivity, especially with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences catalyst selectivity and activity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research to optimize the N2O-ODHP process for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts due to a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high selectivity. However, N2O yields lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Potential solutions include developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species. Further research aims to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by promoting molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4 catalysts, as evidenced by decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield. Challenges include catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these involve developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and exploring catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity, akin to -Sb2O4, suggests potential synergies in mixed catalysts. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, are generated by steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. A major issue is deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. TEOM correlates activity and deactivation through real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2, which boosts propene yield. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge, with carbon deposits playing a minor role. Partial regeneration under N2O at high temperatures is possible, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and controlling catalyst oxidation, directly oxidizing propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration offers a strategy to optimize selectivity, addressing key challenges for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propylene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx sites' increased activity for propylene oxidation with agglomeration, leading to lower selectivity and propane's total oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Research suggests N2O forms fewer non-lattice oxygen species from gas-phase O2, contributing to COx formation. Studies aim to identify these species using EPR spectroscopy, focusing on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propylene selectivity compared to O2 at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields high initial propene outputs of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donor role and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, notably Fe-beta. FeZSM-5 exhibits sites with differing coke sensitivity, indicating complex deactivation mechanisms involving reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). Monitoring coking is effective with the TEOM technique coupled with GC, but surface-level deactivation insights are lacking. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time coke monitoring and to understand surface acidity changes, crucial for ODHP comprehension. Research gaps exist in selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability, highlighting the need for detailed in situ studies and regeneration analysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Strategies include optimizing iron incorporation and reaction conditions to minimize coke. Steam activation reduces Brnsted sites, slowing deactivation. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Further research on catalyst stability, acidity's role in ODHP, and process designs with regeneration could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, notably with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts yield high propylene but suffer rapid deactivation, primarily due to coke formation. Addressing catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms are crucial for N2O-ODHP's practicality. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalyst state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute, though less oxidizing than O2. Pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in enhancing selectivity is attributed to its inhibition of non-selective sites and synergistic effect with O2, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. For instance, adding 300 ppm N2O to a NiMoO4/[Si,V]-MCM-41 catalyst decreases propane conversion from 7.5% to 4.3% while increasing selectivity from 34.8% to 41.9%. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst regeneration in the presence of N2O, as pure N2O leads to high carbon formation and quick deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 boosts selectivity, while N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene yield. Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O compared to O2 improves propene selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, whereas polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a monooxygen donor in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene production, up to 25% at 723 K. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate deactivation by increasing N2O conversion. Oxygen's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing propylene yield while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2. At high N2O levels, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate catalyst oxidation states, improving performance and addressing deactivation and stability issues. Research should focus on optimizing promoter levels to enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation and carbon oxides ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle ([5]), compounded by propane's reductant effect and complex N2O conversion ([6]). The deactivation mechanism remains elusive ([7]), lacking strategies to curb coke deposition and prolong catalyst life ([8]). Research priorities should include deactivation understanding, stable catalyst development, and condition optimization for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites, favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are essential for high selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for controlling selective oxidation and combustion, is facilitated by N2O over O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, albeit reducing catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is unaffected by VOx species dispersion with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage lies in lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, as studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 show up to three times higher selectivity, particularly for bulk-like V2O5 species. This is attributed to N2O's lesser re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Initial propene selectivity is enhanced, and direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are reduced. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O influence selectivity and activity, indicating a role beyond reduction degree. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, compared to oxygen (O2). This is due to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species also impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species being nonselective for the ODHP reaction. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have shown that N2O can lead to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are more significant in the presence of O2 than N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies that focus on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by a 32% increase in selectivity for pure NiMoO4 catalysts (Quote 6). It promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity (Quote 7). However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 5). Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Advanced research could address these limitations, focusing on catalyst development that controls selectivity and inhibits non-selective sites (Quote 8), potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke. Steam activation is vital for high catalytic activities, with extraframework iron species crucial for activity. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, attributed to its unique reoxidation mechanism of vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research efforts should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, keeping sites in a reduced state. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability issues, underscoring N2O-ODHP's potential for advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based materials, outperforming O2. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, curbing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high until vanadium surface concentration exceeds monolayer coverage. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, selectivity drops, but N2O lessens this impact. N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation than O2. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst exhibited 80% propene selectivity with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy identified oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, revealing N2O's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves high propene yields (24%) similar to V and Mo-based catalysts with O2. N2O's monooxygen donor role and Fe-zeolites' coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation are key. However, coke formation deactivates catalysts, rapidly reducing propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity (Quote [1]). However, coke deactivation (Quote [2]) poses a significant challenge, reducing propylene yield. In situ spectroscopic studies, particularly FTIR (Quote [7]), are essential for understanding deactivation and regeneration mechanisms. Research gaps exist in selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites (Quote [9]) and catalyst reusability (Quote [10]), highlighting the need for detailed investigation to overcome limitations and advance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, notably with iron zeolites, achieving up to 22% yield with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge, impacting stability and lifetime. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on iron sources, enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrated process designs could significantly improve the feasibility of N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity across various catalysts, notably iron zeolites and vanadium-based ones, as per quote 2. Quote 3 underlines Fe-ZSM-5's high C3H6 yield. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation (quote 4), hinders N2O's practicality. Quote 5 stresses the need for stability improvements and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms. Research should target stable catalysts, coke minimization, and deactivation resistance to make N2O-ODHP a viable option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, inhibiting non-selective propane activation, and limiting non-selective oxygen species formation (Quote [2], [3], [4]). At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that aid ODHP (Quote [5]). However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating O2 for regeneration (Quote [17]). Research should focus on optimizing N2O and O2 ratios to maintain catalyst stability and enhance propylene yield (Quote [19]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 boost selectivity, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene yield compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms prefer propene over COx. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 boosts propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propylene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O, and small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify less deactivating active sites. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation by providing a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and catalytic performance, evidenced by increased propylene yield and selectivity, reduced oxygen consumption, and lower CO2 yield at low N2O concentrations. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing catalytic performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues is critical for practical implementation, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts ([3]). Challenges include catalyst deactivation ([5]) and complex N2O conversion on iron-zeolites ([6]). The deactivation mechanism ([7]) and coke deposition ([8]) require research for improved catalyst stability and lifetime, crucial for N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical implementation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, linked to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles exhibit no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering distinct advantages. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, focusing on the development of advanced catalysts that maintain high propylene selectivity and stability under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, compared to oxygen (O2). This is due to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species is also significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propylene selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and promoted molybdenum reduction (Quote 2, 3, 7). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are utilized, with N2O significantly boosting propylene selectivity. However, challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and understand how N2O inhibits non-selective sites and oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 (Quote 10), potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, as it generates extraframework iron species responsible for the oxydehydrogenation of propane with N2O. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to dealumination upon steam treatment, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O, suggesting potential strategies for overcoming limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise promotes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research emphasis should be on improving catalyst stability, mitigating vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, keeping sites reduced and limiting non-selective oxygen species. Its oxygen specifically oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can fine-tune selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active lattice oxygen, limiting propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites, but drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate; N2O mitigates this. N2O also reduces non-lattice oxygen species from O2, which contribute to COx formation. At 10% propane conversion, N2O achieved 80% propene selectivity, compared to 50% with O2, despite a lower turnover frequency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP showcases superior propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, limits performance, with varying sensitivity in FeZSM-5's active sites. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation is crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, coke formation on iron zeolites rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy are crucial for studying deactivation mechanisms, though TEOM lacks surface-level insights. In situ studies under reaction conditions are needed to understand deactivation and regeneration, particularly for iron-containing zeolites in C3H8 + N2O reactions. The reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored, underscoring the need for detailed research to address limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, notably steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Steam activation reduces deactivation, indicating the importance of minimizing Brnsted acid sites. Further investigation into the role of acidity and iron sources could enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, often due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and optimized conditions to minimize coke formation, necessitating further research for viable N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O leads to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the presence of both O2 and N2O modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and N2O's lower reoxidation ability improve propene selectivity. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen favor waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species from N2O favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic species from O2 participate in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 and decreases C3H6 selectivity, negatively impacting intermediates crucial for propene production. Strategies include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen. Nickel molybdate catalysts, with N2O, enhance propylene yield at low concentrations but reduce propane conversion and CO2 yield. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance and addressing stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which often causes over-oxidation and lower olefin yields. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation is a major issue, compounded by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is unclear, lacking methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing stable catalysts is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, and optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved with N2O, controls selective oxidation. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation through advanced research is essential for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP outperforms O2 by enhancing propylene selectivity at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curtails direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, optimizing surface oxygen density in VOx species for selectivity. This effect is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike with O2, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions at lower surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by limiting the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times greater propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is essential to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP a more viable option for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these issues involve optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, reducing CO2 yield and promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are used. However, N2O decreases propane conversion and CO2 yield, posing practical implementation challenges. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, such as using more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions, could make N2O-ODHP more viable. Research should focus on developing new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. Quotes highlight that N2O increases propylene selectivity and facilitates molybdenum reduction, indicating its role in controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which rapidly deactivates. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits ([3], [5]), poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration can be achieved by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures ([8]), with full recovery requiring oxygen. Future research should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and devising efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, creating a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, a strategy for optimization. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. This is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, lowering active lattice oxygen and inhibiting propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity decreases when V2O5 nanocrystallites are predominant, but N2O lessens this impact. Studies suggest non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Research aims to identify oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst demonstrated a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, and propene selectivity was 80% with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy was employed to determine oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, thanks to Fe-zeolites' efficiency in coordinating reactive oxygen species. Steam-activated Fe-zeolites show superior performance, but catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke, limits propene yield. Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying coke sensitivity. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and mitigate deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Detailed studies on N2O selective oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating advanced research for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields than traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5, show significant promise. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and explore alternative iron sources for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP. The role of acidity in deactivation is a critical area requiring further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively (Quote 1). Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based and vanadium-based (Quote 2). Challenges include rapid deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hindering N2O's practicality (Quote 4). Research is crucial for improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms (Quote 5), suggesting strategies like developing stable catalysts and minimizing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, enhancing yield while reducing propane and oxygen conversion. It operates by promoting a more reduced state in catalytic sites, inhibiting non-selective sites and limiting the formation of non-selective oxygen species. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is crucial for catalyst oxidation and regeneration in the presence of N2O. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials improve propylene selectivity, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity by reducing active surface lattice oxygen, favoring propane oxidation to propene over COx. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen contributes to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor role and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower propene (<5%) and decreases selectivity, increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing yield and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability issues hinder practical implementation, necessitating advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote 3). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and the intricate conversion of N2O in the presence of propane (Quote 6) pose significant hurdles. Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms (Quote 7), prevent coke deposition (Quote 8), and enhance catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration, favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support achieve high selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, due to its milder oxidizing strength that curbs direct propane and subsequent propene oxidation to COx. This results in diminished catalytic activity, as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage stems from lowered surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by minimizing the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and up to three times greater propylene selectivity, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's lower ability to re-oxidize reduced VOx species, enhancing propene selectivity. N2O also curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, further improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is imperative to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a more viable practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, as it promotes a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene yield. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity compared to oxygen (O2). N2O prevents the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze consecutive propene oxidation to COx, offering an advantage in selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced catalyst design and optimized reaction conditions to sustain high activity and selectivity. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing robust catalysts for N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and lower CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed, with N2O promoting Mo reduction for improved selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Research should focus on stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding N2O's role in selectivity modulation and catalyst reduction, as indicated by its ability to inhibit non-selective sites and facilitate Mo reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 shows resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as evidenced by quotes [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction (quotes [3] and [5]), poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating (quote [8]) and oxygen reoxidation can restore activity. Research should prioritize improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing effective regeneration techniques to make N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    