Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced state of the catalyst, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's consecutive oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage, with isolated VOx sites present. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 is limited, necessitating further research. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, while N2O achieved half the conversion rate but 80% propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion, compared to 50% with O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identified oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41, exploring their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's deactivation suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. Iron zeolites exhibit superior performance, but coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis reveals deactivation and coking correlations, yet lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ N2O oxidation studies over iron zeolites and detailed catalyst reusability assessments. Complementary techniques like TEOMGC and characterization methods (XRD, TEM, nitrogen adsorption) are essential for evaluating catalyst reversibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields and lower COx formation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring alternative iron sources for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP a practical option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O modifies catalytic performance in ODHP, decreasing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield and selectivity, and reducing CO2 yield. It enables catalytic sites to operate in a more reduced, selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O's dissociated oxygen species play a role, suggesting its ability to induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 can be improved by fully covering the support with VOx species, further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Reduced active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen favor CO and CO2 formation. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge, leading to decreased propene yields. Higher temperatures reduce deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to overcome limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts, when doped with N2O, exhibit modified catalytic performances: propane conversion decreases, propylene yield and selectivity increase, and oxygen consumption and CO2 yield decrease at low N2O concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations reduce propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performances. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2, reducing olefin yields [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, showing superior performance after severe calcination [3]. However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue [5], exacerbated by propane's reductant role and the complex conversion of N2O. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, and there's no effective method to prevent coke deposition, limiting catalyst lifetime [8]. Addressing these limitations through advanced research could enhance N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to less favorable N2O decomposition compared to O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene output. High selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, essential for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering superior propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity issues with V2O5. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in a slower reoxidation of reduced VOx species, suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with N2O helping to mitigate issues by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these challenges include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods for deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, which limit practical application. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical. Strategies like developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction could improve N2O-ODHP feasibility. The mixture of NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and a palladium supported on a mixed Zr-Ce-O oxide catalyst, are employed. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites is similar to -Sb2O4. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, revealing insights into deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to mesopores from dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, focusing on improving catalyst design and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which leads to carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. The O from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to improve catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across diverse catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less severe with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation. Research aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 with O2 and N2O, using EPR spectroscopy. Prior studies on the same catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, half with N2O, yet propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50% at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are essential for studying coke formation and catalyst deactivation, though detailed mechanisms remain unexplored. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation in C3H8 + N2O reactions and catalyst regeneration, including the reusability of regenerated catalysts. Despite the lack of in situ investigations, complementary spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions could provide insights into the ODHP reaction and improve catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge. Strategies to mitigate deactivation include optimizing iron incorporation methods and reaction conditions, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and integrated process designs for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity across diverse catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O isn't viable due to rapid catalyst deactivation; molecular oxygen is crucial for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O improve selectivity by modulating the catalyst's oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials and further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with 773 K showing slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving stability and addressing deactivation challenges, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation ([5]) and the complex conversion of N2O in the presence of propane ([6]) are significant hurdles. The deactivation mechanism ([7]) and coke deposition ([8]) remain unresolved, necessitating further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance propene selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. N2O's effect is advantageous for propene formation over combustion at lower surface densities, with no significant selectivity difference between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles lack selectivity for ODHP with O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, up to three times more than O2, by limiting the re-oxidation of reduced VOx species, thus increasing catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, indicating a need for advanced research to optimize catalyst stability and overcome deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a lower ODP activity than O2 but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on stabilizing catalysts, exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, and optimizing reaction conditions. N2O may inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and extraframework iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. FeZSM-5's mesopores, from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Direct N2O decomposition activity in FeZSM-5 suggests increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and deactivation resistance for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by gently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating aids, but full recovery needs O2. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across diverse catalysts including iron zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species leads to lower active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops and direct propane oxidation occur with agglomerized VOx sites, less severe with N2O. Recent studies suggest non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, necessitating research on their nature and structure over VOx/MCM-41. Prior work on this catalyst showed higher propene selectivity with N2O (80%) vs. O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is applied to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation in FeZSM-5 suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC, effectively monitors coking but lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is needed to understand coke formation and surface changes in hydrocarbon conversion. Detailed in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, highlighting research gaps for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts under N2O, achieving significant propylene yields at lower temperatures than mixed metal oxides. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Further research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel in propylene yield. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly from coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O is not advisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating molecular oxygen for catalyst regeneration. N2O's role is to inhibit non-selective sites, with the best selectivity achieved when both O2 and N2O are present, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. Research should focus on optimizing N2O concentration and understanding its interaction with O2 to enhance catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen favor CO and CO2 formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. The catalyst's performance is attributed to N2O's specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, which is mitigated by higher temperatures. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, and its addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion while increasing propylene yield and selectivity, and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, at higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Critical challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which often results in CO and CO2 over-oxidation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination (Quote 3 and 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) require further research for catalyst stability enhancement and practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. Advanced research is needed to fully leverage these benefits for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which curbs direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propene selectivity across different VOx catalysts. N2O's positive impact stems from reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODHP reaction. N2O decomposition over reducible metal oxides yields selective mononuclear oxygen species. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations involve optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity, with a decrease in propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are employed. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, potentially through more stable catalysts or optimized reaction conditions. -Sb2O4 and N2O synergistically control selectivity, inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity, as it reoxidizes vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a critical challenge. Partial regeneration is possible by heating under N2O, but full activity requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction, as it works by limiting non-selective oxygen species formation and controlling the oxidation state of the catalyst. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, and adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. A similar effect is observed in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide catalysts. The advantage of N2O is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's consecutive oxidation to COx. However, VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivities are consistent when vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage, but drop dramatically with V2O5 nanocrystallites, although N2O mitigates this effect. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O upon reoxidation of VOx species. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, while N2O achieved 80% propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion, compared to 50% with O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions was used to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41 and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a major issue, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter suggesting sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing ODHP performance. However, iron zeolites deactivate by coke, reducing propylene yield. TEOM with GC analysis correlates deactivation and coking, but lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ N2O oxidation studies over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability post-regeneration. Complementary spectroscopic studies and TEOMGC experiments are needed to evaluate catalyst reversibility and understand the deactivation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations, optimizing reaction conditions, and employing in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on iron sources, catalyst design, and integrated process designs could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP a practical option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion, increases propylene yield, and reduces CO2 selectivity. N2O's dissociation provides oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable for ODHP as O2 is essential for catalyst regeneration; otherwise, deactivation occurs. N2O reduces molybdenum catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity improves over V/g-Al2O3 materials with well-dispersed VOx species, further tunable with N2O. Reduced VOx site reoxidation by N2O enhances propene selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficacy is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O as a gas dope modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, at higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance and addressing challenges of catalyst deactivation and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue, with complex N2O conversion on iron-zeolites and unclear deactivation mechanisms. Research is needed to understand deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke and extend catalyst life, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene formation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion, despite lowering catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's benefit stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated in recent studies over VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. Propene selectivity can increase up to three times with N2O, attributed to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are considered nonselective for the ODP reaction over certain catalysts. The critical challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Strategies for practical implementation could involve understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, which limit practicality. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as developing more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions, are crucial. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites suggests it can fine-tune the reaction, making N2O-ODHP a promising but complex process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. The initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA is significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. A major drawback is deactivation by coke, causing a rapid decrease in propene yield. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolite catalysts in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, despite lower propane conversion, by avoiding peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a major hurdle. Partial regeneration is achievable by heating under N2O, with full restoration needing oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction rate, as it creates a more reduced state for catalytic sites. This mechanism limits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls catalyst oxidation state, potentially outperforming other oxidants. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, observed over various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Similar effects are noted in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. The advantage of N2O stems from its slower reoxidation of VOx species, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization degree. Propene selectivity remains high as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Research is needed on the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst previously tested in ODHP shows a turnover frequency of propane conversion of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, compared to half with N2O, but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50% at 10% propane conversion). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41 and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, with Fe-zeolites achieving 24% propene yields, matching top-performing V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and Fe-zeolites' reactive atomic oxygen coordination are key. However, coke-induced deactivation is a major challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter suggesting variable coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke significantly reduces propylene yield. While TEOM coupled with GC aids in correlating deactivation and coking, it lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Detailed in situ studies on N2O oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating further research. Complementary spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions are needed to address these gaps.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based materials like Fe-ZSM-5 and redox metals such as vanadium and molybdenum are effective in this process. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this through stable catalyst formulations, optimized reaction conditions, and enhanced deactivation resistance could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts, leading to more selective sites. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion, increases propylene yield, and reduces CO2 selectivity. N2O's dissociation provides oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces molybdenum catalysts, causing high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with 773 K showing slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while high concentrations decrease selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane, forming CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, but catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and develop more stable catalysts to minimize coke formation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to less favorable N2O decomposition, reducing active sites and increasing selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding strong propene adsorption. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced re-oxidation ability of surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive impact stems from lowering surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by minimizing the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times greater propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is essential for achieving high propene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity compared to O2. However, this effect is beneficial for selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Further research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, impacting practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts for higher activity and selectivity, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. FeMFI zeolites face deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. A TEOM coupled with GC analysis correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to mesopores from dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, poses a challenge, as noted in [3] and [5]. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, as [8] indicates. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, allowing catalytic sites to operate in a more reduced state. The O2 from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a promising area for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This effect is also observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. N2O's advantage stems from slower reoxidation of VOx species, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, although N2O mitigates this. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 is sought to understand their nature and structure. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis reveals deactivation and coking correlations, yet lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Detailed in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability remain unexplored, necessitating further research. XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption analyses complement infrared results, evaluating catalyst reversibility post-regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly those activated by steam, are effective catalysts in this process, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam-activated zeolites exhibit slower deactivation, suggesting the importance of acidity control. Strategies to address catalyst limitations include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation and exploring alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen significantly increases propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 production, while vanadium and molybdenum are also effective. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalytic sites, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species, promoting ODHP while being less oxidant than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, causing high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity in ODHP by modulating their oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with 773 K showing slower deactivation and high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates crucial for propene production, deteriorating FeZSM-5 performance. Strategies include optimizing temperature to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore mechanisms of coke formation and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective, pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts are used, and adding N2O modifies catalytic performance: it decreases propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue, with complex N2O conversion on iron-zeolites and unclear deactivation mechanisms. Addressing these requires research into stable catalysts and conditions to minimize coke and extend catalyst life, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of reduced VOx sites. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity. N2O's positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propene selectivity over O2, particularly with vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, which is essential for high propene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating strategies such as optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. N2O's advantage lies in its ability to reduce the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by its addition leading to a significant increase in propylene yield while decreasing CO2 production. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are employed. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, akin to -Sb2O4, suggests a synergistic effect in mixed catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity, as it reoxidizes vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with O2 reoxidation are strategies. Research should aim for stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, as it works in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize catalyst performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, but N2O mitigates this effect. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. Limited data exists on oxygen species from O2 and N2O. The study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 with O2 and N2O. Prior work with VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP showed higher propene selectivity (80%) with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites, matching top-performing V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites, specifically activated by steam, yield 24% propene at elevated temperatures, highlighting N2O's role as a monooxygen donor. However, catalyst deactivation by coke is a significant challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying sensitivity to coke. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by enabling iron zeolites to coordinate reactive oxygen species, efficiently dehydrogenating propane. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation significantly reduces propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOM-GC analysis are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms but lack surface-level insights. Advanced research is needed to explore the deactivation of iron zeolites in C3H8 + N2O reactions and catalyst regeneration, as in situ studies on N2O-ODHP with iron zeolites are lacking. The reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unaddressed, highlighting the need for detailed investigations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts under N2O, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a critical challenge, with steam-activated zeolites showing slower deactivation rates. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and optimize reaction conditions are needed for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Iron and redox metal catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium, enhance propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, contributing to the ODHP process. N2O promotes a reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen (O2), which is essential for catalyst regeneration. N2O's role, alongside O2, optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration in VOx species favors propane to propene conversion over COx production. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, evidenced by its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production at lower concentrations. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. The text does not address catalyst deactivation and stability challenges in N2O-ODHP, indicating a need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote 3). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and the complex conversion of N2O in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) need further investigation. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering superior propylene selectivity over O2 at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, reducing active surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species. This stoichiometric advantage favors selective propene formation over combustion. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles and highly dispersed surface VOx species show no significant difference in propene selectivity with N2O, unlike their O2 performance. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and overcoming deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is evidenced by studies showing improved propene selectivity with N2O over VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, particularly for bulk-like V2O5 species. The complex reaction scheme indicates that direct propane oxidation to COx is more significant with O2 than N2O, and the improved initial propene selectivity with N2O is linked to the degree of vanadium site reduction and the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research to make N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a higher degree of reduction, essential for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants. This is evident from studies showing increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are pivotal, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Addressing these, research could focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the role of -Sb2O4 in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yield at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA is higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke. TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, reveals correlations between activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per quotes [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a challenge, as noted in quotes [3], [4], [5], and [7]. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, as in quote [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation directly oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species leads to lower active oxygen site concentration, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization affecting propene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research is needed to understand oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, aiming to improve catalyst stability and selectivity for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites at elevated temperatures, matching yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke is a significant issue, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as highlighted in Quote 1. However, Quote 2 reveals a significant challenge: iron zeolites' deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. Advanced research is needed, as indicated in Quote 6, to understand deactivation mechanisms and regeneration under reaction conditions. In situ FTIR spectroscopy, mentioned in Quote 7, is useful for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in zeolite catalysts. Observing catalysts under process conditions, as per Quote 8, aids in understanding ODHP. However, as noted in Quote 9, in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites are lacking. Additionally, the reusability of regenerated catalysts, as per Quote 10, requires further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites as catalysts. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites yield higher propylene compared to other preparation methods, as iron impurities in steamed commercial H-ZSM-5 enhance selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits stability. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke, and integrate in situ regeneration techniques. Exploring alternative iron sources, designing deactivation-resistant catalysts, and integrating catalyst regeneration steps could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Iron-based catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5, and vanadium catalysts excel in this process. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly from coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP a viable industrial option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's role in ODHP, alongside O2, optimizes catalyst oxidation state for better selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity. The decrease in active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors propane oxidation to propene over COx, as only one to two lattice oxygen are needed for the reaction. Active sites with more oxygen favor waste product formation. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O affects catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species promoting selective oxidation and polyatomic species contributing to COx formation. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with 773 K showing slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 addition significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows selectivity advantages over molecular oxygen, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and increase carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research to make N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue, with the conversion of N2O on iron-zeolites complicated by propane's presence. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is not fully understood, lacking effective means to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing selectivity (Quote 1, 2). High propylene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species on the support. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, crucial for selective oxidation and combustion, is facilitated by N2O over O2 (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering higher propene selectivity than O2 at similar propane conversion levels. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity but favoring propene formation. N2O's positive impact on selectivity is linked to lower surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene formation over COx.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is essential for achieving high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. N2O's lower oxidizing ability tunes the degree of reduction of vanadium species, leading to a higher reduction degree of VOx species. However, the lower activity of N2O compared to O2 is a limitation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, necessitating strategies such as optimizing catalyst structure and composition to enhance stability and selectivity, developing methods to regenerate deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that can maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, with NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixtures, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide catalysts. N2O's addition significantly enhances propylene selectivity, reduces propane and oxygen conversion, and decreases CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. However, decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield pose challenges. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used in propane ODHP, boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. This slower reoxidation enhances propene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration is possible with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires O2. Research should aim for more stable catalysts, optimized conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, likely due to its ability to produce oxygen for propane oxidation to propene. In a more reduced state, catalytic sites limit non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is needed for VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation are pivotal. However, coke-induced catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle, rapidly reducing propene yield. Deactivation rates vary: Fe-beta > Fe-silicalite > FeZSM-5, with FeZSM-5's behavior indicating diverse iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can stem from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP (Quote 1). However, coke formation rapidly deactivates these catalysts, reducing propylene yield (Quote 2). In situ FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC analysis are essential for understanding coke formation and catalyst deactivation (Quote 6), but detailed in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites are lacking (Quote 9). Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore alternative iron sources and incorporation methods. Strategies include in situ regeneration techniques and integrated process designs for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by its use with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts (Quote 2). Iron-based materials, notably Fe-ZSM-5, and redox metals like vanadium and molybdenum, are effective catalysts (Quote 3). However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility (Quote 4). Addressing catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms are critical for N2O-ODHP's practicality (Quote 5). Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and elucidating deactivation mechanisms for robust catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, contributing to the ODP process. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen. N2O's role includes inhibiting non-selective sites and modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity, but it also reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O is crucial for catalyst regeneration and maintaining selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and further tuned by N2O. Its lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. The oxidizing agent's effect on catalytic performance relates to the nature of oxygen species, with atomic oxygen species suggested for selective oxidation and polyatomic for COx formation, though direct evidence is lacking. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its superiority stems from its role as a monooxygen donor and the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's use as an oxidant leads to low C3H6 yields and increased COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to overcome limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying cost-effective catalyst systems for N2O production, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially reducing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity, and decreasing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, at higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability need further research to make N2O-ODHP a practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which often results in CO and CO2 formation, reducing olefin yields (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote [3]). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote [5]) and the complex conversion of N2O in the presence of propane pose significant challenges. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop more stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke deposition and enhance catalyst lifetime (Quote [8]), making N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, while optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achievable with N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing propylene yield. This effect is linked to reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring propylene formation over combustion. Despite lower catalytic activity due to N2O's weaker re-oxidation ability, propylene selectivity remains high for both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles lack selectivity for ODHP with O2. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, up to three times more than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, the ODP activity with N2O is lower than with O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed (nonlattice) or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODP reaction over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Potential solutions include developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that can maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions, are key research directions. N2O's lower oxidizing ability tunes the degree of reduction of vanadium species, leading to a higher reduction degree of VOx species, which is essential for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide enhance this process. N2O facilitates molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion decrease and catalyst deactivation. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing insights into coking. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which leads to carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works by limiting non-selective oxygen species formation and controlling catalyst oxidation state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, and adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, making it a promising strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, as observed in n-butane dehydrogenation. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 is needed, as is understanding their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, and 80% propene selectivity with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy hinges on N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can stem from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation hinders iron zeolites, reducing propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis reveals deactivation patterns, yet lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of coke formation and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Advanced research is needed for in situ N2O oxidation studies over iron zeolites and to assess catalyst reusability post-regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving significant propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and employing in situ regeneration techniques. Research should explore alternative iron sources, design catalysts resistant to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration into process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites like Fe-ZSM-5. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable for ODHP as molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst regeneration; without it, catalysts deactivate rapidly due to N2O's reducing effect on molybdenum, causing high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to high N2O conversion. O2's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation are key. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, evidenced by increased propylene yield and decreased oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low N2O concentrations. However, higher N2O levels decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Catalyst deactivation and stability challenges in N2O-ODHP are acknowledged, with adjusting promoter concentration suggested as a strategy to improve catalyst performance. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts, especially after severe calcination. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, is a major hurdle. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, and strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime are lacking. Research into deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and enhancing propene formation, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species on the support, avoiding non-selective propene oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O instead of O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. Advanced research should focus on catalyst design and oxygen optimization for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by limiting the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering distinct advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODHP reaction over certain catalysts. N2O decomposition over reducible metal oxides yields mononuclear oxygen species, which are selective. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, necessitating advanced research to develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimize reaction conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Strategies include understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion (Quote 2). Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed, with -Sb2O4 and N2O controlling selectivity (Quote 8). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts with higher activity and optimizing reaction conditions (temperature, pressure, feed composition).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, reveals that deactivation rates correlate with zeolite structure and iron distribution. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance may relate to its mesoporous structure, reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which promotes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration is possible with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, conditions minimizing vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, working in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. However, VOx agglomerization increases consecutive propene oxidation. Selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Research is needed on oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, half with N2O, but propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41 and assess their reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation by coke significantly reduces propylene yield. While TEOM coupled with GC analysis offers insights into coking and deactivation, it lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism details. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ studies of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and the reusability of regenerated catalysts, indicating a need for advanced spectroscopic investigations and catalyst reversibility assessments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable performance in N2O-ODHP, achieving significant propylene yields at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a critical challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Further research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, boosting selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species can induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity are critical findings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Its lower reoxidation ability increases catalyst reduction, spatially separating active lattice oxygen. Propylene selectivity is improved over V/g-Al2O3 materials with well-dispersed VOx species, and N2O as an oxidant tunes selectivity further. The lower activity of N2O enhances propene selectivity by reducing VOx site reoxidation. This effect is due to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, evidenced by its performance in other oxidation reactions. In the presence of nickel molybdate catalysts, N2O addition enhances propylene yield and selectivity, reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low concentrations, but decreases propylene selectivity and forms carbonaceous products at higher concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. However, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2, as noted in quote [2]. Iron-zeolites, specifically Fe-ZSM-5 (quote [3]), are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation (quote [5]) and the complex conversion of N2O on iron-zeolites in the presence of propane are significant challenges. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop more stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to less favorable N2O decomposition, as per [1] and [2]. High selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species [3]. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O [4] controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of reduced VOx sites. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's benefit stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is due to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity compared to O2, but it also suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species is also significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, related to the need for controlled surface density of active oxygen species and prevention of nonselective oxygen species formation. Strategies to address these limitations could involve developing catalysts with optimized structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. Advanced research is needed to precisely define the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O over reduced VOx species and to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in the selectivity of the ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction, facilitated by N2O, enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, impacting practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 and promoting molybdenum reduction suggests a mechanism for selectivity control.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Remarkable yields of propionaldehyde (up to 6%) are obtained. FeMFI zeolites face deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during gas-solid reactions, presenting advantages over conventional microbalances. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolite catalysts in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity, attributed to its reoxidation of vanadium without peroxovanadate formation, which minimizes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with oxygen reoxidation are strategies. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    