Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by controlling the catalyst's oxidation state and limiting non-selective oxygen species, as it inhibits O2 adsorption and increases catalyst reduction rate. The O2 from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, keeping catalytic sites in a reduced state. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. The activity of VOx sites for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops dramatically with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is limited. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant issue, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter suggesting active iron sites vary in coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, a key advantage in ODHP. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation by coke, diminishing propylene yield. In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are essential for studying coke formation and catalyst deactivation, revealing the need for detailed investigations under reaction conditions. Despite this, in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites are lacking, and the reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored. Advanced research is required to address these limitations and enhance catalyst stability, crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and improved propylene selectivity compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly when steam-activated, enhance propylene yields at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing reaction conditions and developing more stable catalyst formulations. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Further research on acidity's role and catalyst regeneration could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, as evidenced by improved performance across catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based materials, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel in propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a critical challenge, limiting N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires advanced research to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O isn't suitable for ODHP as O2 is crucial for catalyst regeneration, preventing rapid deactivation. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODHP highlight its potential. Further research is needed to optimize N2O usage and address catalyst deactivation issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity on V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx coverage, further tunable with N2O. N2O's reduced reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors propene over COx, needing only 1-2 oxygen atoms. More oxygen atoms favor waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Direct evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP shows enhanced propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O as a gas dope to nickel molybdate catalysts modifies performance: it decreases propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving stability and performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, unlike dioxygen which over-oxidizes propane, as noted in [2]. Iron-zeolites, specifically Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, as mentioned in [3]. However, catalyst deactivation, highlighted in [5], is a significant issue, necessitating research into stable catalysts and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation and extend catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for high-performance ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propene selectivity across different VOx species. The positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity, especially with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, the ODP activity with N2O is lower than with O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propene selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, and strategies to address these include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by studies showing increased propylene yield and decreased CO2 production. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites suggests potential for practical implementation with further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for activity. The nature of these species, the zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance is tentatively linked to its iron constitution and porous structure. Dealumination in FeZSM-5 creates mesopores, reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by gently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, limits its practicality. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with O2 reoxidation are strategies. Research should aim for more stable catalysts, optimized conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, likely due to its ability to maintain catalytic sites in a reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and minimizing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high for isolated VOx sites, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites. N2O mitigates total propane oxidation more effectively than O2. Further research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, as preliminary studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species that contribute to COx formation. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, providing insights into catalyst improvement for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites at high temperatures, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness hinges on N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex issue, can stem from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, as per Quote 1. However, Quote 2 reveals a significant challenge: iron zeolites deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy offer detailed insights into coke formation and catalyst deactivation, as mentioned in Quotes 3-8. These methods are essential for understanding the ODHP reaction under real conditions. Yet, as noted in Quotes 9-10, there's a lack of in-depth studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability in N2O-ODHP. Complementary spectroscopic studies and further research are needed to address these limitations and enhance the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in this process, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, limiting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and explore alternative iron sources, aiming to make N2O-ODHP a more practical industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and potentially limiting oxygen adsorption. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's role, alongside O2, optimizes catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity. Research should focus on catalyst stability under N2O and O2 to advance practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits its performance. Higher temperatures reduce deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O. The addition of O2 decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows enhanced propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, increasing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations lead to decreased propylene selectivity and formation of carbonaceous products. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation ([5]) and the complex conversion of N2O in the presence of propane are significant challenges. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop more stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering superior propene selectivity over O2 at comparable propane conversion rates. This is due to N2O's weaker oxidizing potential, which curbs direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion. Despite lower catalytic activity, N2O ensures propene selectivity is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles. The benefit of N2O stems from its role in lowering surface oxygen density in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at reduced surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This improvement is particularly significant with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O decreasing CO2 selectivity and CO formation, indicating a reduced tendency towards direct propane combustion and consecutive C3H6 oxidation. The catalytic performance is determined by the oxidant, with N2O offering a more selective pathway for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations involve optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. Advanced research is needed to precisely define the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O over reduced VOx species and to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in the selectivity of the ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by a study showing a significant increase in selectivity and a decrease in CO2 yield and propane conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide, are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability pose challenges, limiting practical application. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the role of N2O in inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, whereas FeBEA deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity with deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used in propane ODHP, boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating can restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should aim for more stable catalysts, optimized conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, working in a more reduced state. Its dissociation produces O, oxidizing propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, similar to n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is limited. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identifies oxygen species reactive towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with Fe-zeolites achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation are key. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis reveals deactivation and coking correlations, yet lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Despite TEOM's detailed coke formation insights, in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites are lacking, as is detailed research on catalyst reusability. Complementary spectroscopic studies and catalyst characterization under reaction conditions are needed to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. Research is needed to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to improve catalyst resistance to deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen significantly increases propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 production, while vanadium and molybdenum catalysts are also studied. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalyst formulations, optimized reaction conditions, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, contributing to ODP, though less oxidatively than O2. Pure N2O isn't viable due to catalyst deactivation; O2 is crucial for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O improve selectivity by modulating the catalyst's oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering supports with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures slow down deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying catalysts less susceptible to deactivation. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination (Quotes 3 and 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant hurdles. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) remain unresolved. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to less favorable N2O decomposition compared to O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for high-performance ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, the ODP activity with N2O is lower than with O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed (nonlattice) or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODP reaction over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species for optimized reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, as evidenced by a study using a NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixture and a palladium catalyst. N2O significantly increases propylene selectivity while decreasing propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical application. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial. Strategies could involve developing more stable catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, optimizing reaction conditions, and potentially using N2O to inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 shows resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, measures real-time mass changes during gas-solid reactions, offering advantages over conventional methods. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The rapid deactivation in FeBEA and H-BEA correlates with large cavities in the BEA framework. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, despite lower propane conversion, as it reoxidizes vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit formation, as per [3] and [5], is a key challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, as noted in [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, likely due to its ability to work in a more reduced state and limit non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation specifically oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as observed in n-butane dehydrogenation. Kinetic analysis reveals slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research suggests alternative oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, highlighting the need for studies on oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41. Prior work on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP shows a turnover frequency of propane conversion with O2, but N2O halves this while doubling propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's deactivation suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enables efficient propane dehydrogenation, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation by coke significantly reduces propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking and deactivation. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is essential for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in zeolite catalysts. Despite these tools, detailed in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability remain unexplored, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and practical implementation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as optimizing reaction conditions and catalyst regeneration, are needed. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, exploring alternative iron sources, and developing integrated process designs for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to reduce coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that contribute to ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation; molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity are pivotal findings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This separation favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with well-dispersed VOx species, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability further enhances propene selectivity. The less favorable reoxidation by N2O compared to O2 boosts propene selectivity, as only one to two lattice oxygen are needed for selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its performance is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation. However, deactivation by coke formation is a major drawback, leading to decreased propene yields. Higher temperatures reduce deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant leads to significantly lower C3H6 yields compared to N2O. The addition of O2 to the C3H8+N2O mixture decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalyst systems for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective and pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. The text does not address catalyst deactivation and stability challenges in N2O-ODHP, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is not fully understood, lacking effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research should focus on elucidating deactivation mechanisms, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, and optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, as per quote [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propylene's oxidation to COx, reducing surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species. This selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles. N2O's lower catalytic activity, due to its reduced re-oxidation capacity of VOx, is offset by enhanced propylene formation favored at lower surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propylene selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, with a mixture of NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and a palladium/Zr-Ce-O catalyst. N2O's addition enhances propylene selectivity, decreases propane conversion and CO2 yield, and promotes molybdenum reduction, improving catalyst selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial. Strategies include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests potential for optimization. The reduction of molybdenum under N2O facilitates a more selective catalyst state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking by coke and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Partial regeneration is possible with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction, as it works in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), as observed with iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. A similar effect is noted in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene to COx conversion. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, more so with O2 than N2O. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, as non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and explore their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites, specifically activated by steam, yield 24% propene at high temperatures, facilitated by N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation by coke deposition is a significant issue, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation by coke (Quote 2) significantly reduces propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis effectively monitors coking and deactivation, but lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. Complementary spectroscopic studies, particularly in situ FTIR, are needed to understand coke formation and surface changes in real-time during hydrocarbon conversion. Detailed in situ investigations of N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability after regeneration remain unexplored areas requiring attention.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to O2. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts under N2O, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed on iron sources, catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrated process designs for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen significantly increases propylene yield across various catalysts, notably iron-based materials like Fe-ZSM-5 and redox metals such as vanadium and molybdenum. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding deactivation mechanisms to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to a selective reaction. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion, increases propylene yield, and reduces CO2 selectivity. N2O's presence above 300 ppm suggests it can induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O isn't suitable for ODHP as O2 is essential for catalyst regeneration; otherwise, rapid deactivation occurs. N2O reduces catalysts, causing high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene yield. Reduced VOx sites' reoxidation by N2O compared to O2 boosts selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid catalyst deactivation and decreased propene yield. Higher temperatures reduce deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O as a gas dope to nickel molybdate catalysts modifies catalytic performance, increasing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. However, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability need advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation is a major challenge, with the conversion of N2O on iron-zeolites complicated by propane's presence. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, while optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, which is achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion, attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles. However, N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx sites decreases catalytic activity. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor selective propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by minimizing the re-oxidation of VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from N2O and O2 influences selectivity and activity, with N2O decreasing CO2 selectivity and CO formation, indicating a reduced tendency towards direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The importance of direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx is higher with O2 than with N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies to maintain high activity and selectivity. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation and develop catalysts that can sustain high performance under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction under N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Advanced research could address these issues, focusing on stable catalysts and optimized reaction conditions. For instance, the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites is crucial. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and reduce deactivation rate could make N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species and zeolite structure influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Direct N2O decomposition activity in FeZSM-5 suggests increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species in N2O activation and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which propels carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction rates, as it creates a more reduced state for catalytic sites. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. This approach limits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls catalyst oxidation state, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2 (Quote 1). A similar effect is observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide (Quote 2). The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (Quote 3). VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity remains high until V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, causing a drop in selectivity and direct propane oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O. The study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 with both oxidants, building on previous work with the same catalyst. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), with Fe-zeolites achieving high initial propene yields (24%) akin to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation are pivotal. However, coke-induced deactivation is a major challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can stem from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. The TEOM technique coupled with GC analysis effectively monitors coking and deactivation, though it lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and the reusability of regenerated catalysts, necessitating detailed studies under reaction conditions and across cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve 22% propylene yield, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with steam-activated zeolites showing slower deactivation rates. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more practical petrochemical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts excel in propylene yield, but rapid deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms are critical for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation, requiring advanced research for more stable catalysts and optimized conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O modifies catalytic performance in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity, and diminishing CO2 production. At >300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2. N2O enables a more selective reaction by maintaining a reduced state of catalytic sites. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the necessity of O2 for catalyst stability are key for improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity. The less favorable reoxidation by N2O compared to O2 boosts propylene yield. Active sites with one to two lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields due to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, mitigated by higher temperatures. O2 yields lower propene selectivity and increases COx production compared to N2O. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts' performance is enhanced by N2O, increasing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low N2O concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote 3). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and the complex conversion of N2O in the presence of propane (Quote 6) pose significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and lack of methods to prevent coke deposition (Quote 8) hinder catalyst stability. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity by avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, despite lowering catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity. N2O's benefit stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene formation over COx.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The use of N2O mitigates the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can lead to catalyst deactivation. However, the lower activity of N2O compared to O2 is a limitation. Strategies to address these challenges include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by a significant increase in selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as using more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions, could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality. For instance, N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites suggests potential for advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to mesopores from dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which propels carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a significant hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, allowing catalytic sites to work in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. This effect is less pronounced with N2O when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, causing a drop in propene selectivity. Recent studies suggest that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Limited data exists on the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O. Research on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts reveals a turnover frequency of propane conversion with O2 that is twice as high as with N2O, yet propene selectivity is higher with N2O (80% vs. 50% at 10% propane conversion). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is employed to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation limits propylene yield. While TEOM-GC analysis offers insights into deactivation, it lacks surface-level mechanism details. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes. Further research is needed on selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving significant propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. Research directions include exploring alternative iron sources, enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrating catalyst regeneration steps. Iron impurities in steamed commercial H-ZSM-5 zeolites have been found to induce high propylene selectivity, minimizing COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke, and engineer catalysts resistant to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. Optimal selectivity in ODHP is achieved with a combination of O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. Research should focus on developing catalysts that maintain stability and selectivity in N2O-rich environments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and is tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as it requires fewer lattice oxygen species for propane oxidation compared to COx formation. Active sites with excess lattice oxygen favor waste product formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K, attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, with even small amounts decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production, deteriorating FeZSM-5's performance. Strategies include optimizing temperature to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective, pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially increasing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, at higher concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting N2O concentration could modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, with superior performance after calcination (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) require further investigation. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and enhancing selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for high selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, enhancing propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface lattice oxygen density in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a higher degree of reduction, essential for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the specific surface area decreases with vanadium loading and the degree of polymerization of VOx species is influenced by the support material. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on optimizing catalyst structure and composition to enhance stability and selectivity, developing methods to regenerate deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants that can provide high selectivity and activity while maintaining catalyst stability. The use of N2O can help mitigate these issues by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by studies showing increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research directions could focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 shows high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Remarkable yields of propionaldehyde (up to 6%) have been achieved. A major drawback is deactivation by coke, causing a rapid decrease in propene yield. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, measures mass changes during gas-solid reactions, correlating activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolite catalysts in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in propane ODHP, boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which propels carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with oxygen reoxidation are strategies. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, allowing catalytic sites to operate in a more reduced state. This limits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls the oxidation state of the catalyst. The oxygen from N2O dissociation specifically oxidizes propane to propene, offering selectivity advantages over other oxidants. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, a strategy to optimize catalytic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as well as in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Kinetic analysis reveals slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Research suggests other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O. Studies aim to identify these species using EPR spectroscopy, focusing on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. Propane conversion turnover frequency is higher with O2, but propene selectivity is superior with N2O, at 80% versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation limits performance, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation mechanisms involve active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and overcome deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, as highlighted in Quote 1. However, Quote 2 reveals a significant challenge: iron zeolites deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, reducing propylene yield. Advanced research is needed, as indicated in Quote 6, to understand deactivation mechanisms and regeneration under reaction conditions. In situ FTIR spectroscopy, mentioned in Quote 7, is vital for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in zeolite catalysts. The reusability of regenerated catalysts, as per Quote 10, requires detailed investigation. TEOM and spectroscopic studies provide insights into deactivation and regeneration, complementing infrared results, as noted in Quotes 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, and 12, but further in situ studies are necessary to fully understand the ODHP process with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in this process, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and integrated process designs that incorporate regeneration techniques, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based materials, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by promoting a more reduced state in catalytic sites, leading to selective reactions. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species, which, though less oxidizing than O2, can still induce ODHP. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, causing high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, explaining improved selectivity in ODHP. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, as per quote 1. This separation, noted in quote 3, favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Quote 4 explains that N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces VOx site reoxidation, improving propene selectivity. Quote 5 attributes this effect to N2O's less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, as more oxygen promotes waste product formation. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation, though direct evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's specificity as a monooxygen donor and iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major drawback, leading to a rapid decrease in propene yield. Increasing temperature reduces deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing relatively slow deactivation at 773 K, associated with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant leads to very low C3H6 yields (<5%) compared to N2O, and small amounts of O2 decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts is needed. Developing cheap, selective catalyst systems for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a low-cost, pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene compared to molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. The addition of N2O modifies catalytic performance, reducing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity, especially at lower N2O concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination (Quote 3, 4). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature (Quote 6), and the unclear deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) are significant challenges. Research is needed to understand deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation (Quote 8), enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity by avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achievable with N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, improving overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering superior propene selectivity over O2 at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This stoichiometric advantage favors selective propene formation over combustion. Despite lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced re-oxidation capacity, propene selectivity remains consistent across different VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles lack selectivity for ODHP with O2, highlighting N2O's role in enhancing reaction specificity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity compared to O2, but it also suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species is also significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges in N2O-ODHP, with strategies focusing on advanced catalyst design and optimization of reaction conditions to enhance stability and selectivity. Research directions aim to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. This is evident from studies showing a 32% increase in propylene selectivity with 300 ppm N2O for pure NiMoO4. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, indicating potential practical limitations. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as developing more stable or active catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly integrating -Sb2O4 for selectivity control, could make N2O-ODHP more feasible. The role of -Sb2O4 in oxygen spillover and N2O's inhibition of oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 suggest a mechanism for selectivity modulation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, cause deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and the presence of iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. The TEOM, offering real-time mass change measurements, reveals that the nature of iron species, zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's deactivation resistance is linked to its porous structure and mesopores, reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport. Direct N2O decomposition activity in FeZSM-5 suggests increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which promotes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating can restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it provides a more controlled oxidation state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across diverse catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 results in fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization increasing consecutive propene oxidation and direct propane oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Research suggests non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is limited. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, halving with N2O, yet propene selectivity rose to 80% from 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is used to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation mechanisms involve active site reduction, quality degradation, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enables efficient propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propylene selectivity in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation significantly reduces propylene yield. Advanced in situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms, yet detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking. Research is needed to address these limitations, focusing on the deactivation of iron-containing zeolites in C3H8 + N2O reactions and the catalyst's reversibility on reaction and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to O2. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Further research on iron sources, catalyst stability, and integrated process designs with regeneration steps could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based materials like Fe-ZSM-5 and redox metals such as vanadium and molybdenum are effective in this process. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires advanced research for more stable catalysts and optimized conditions to minimize coke formation, potentially making N2O-ODHP a practical reality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalytic sites, promoting a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, explaining improved selectivity in ODHP. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Direct evidence is lacking, necessitating advanced research to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's specificity as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation. However, deactivation by coke formation limits propene yield, with slower deactivation observed at higher temperatures. Using O2 as an oxidant leads to significantly lower C3H6 yields compared to N2O. The addition of O2 to the C3H8+N2O mixture decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalyst systems for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Critical challenges, such as catalyst deactivation and stability, require further research to make N2O-ODHP a practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2 (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination (Quote [3], [4]). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a key challenge (Quote [5], [6]). Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms (Quote [7]), prevent coke deposition (Quote [8]), and enhance catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to less favorable N2O decomposition, reducing active sites and enhancing propene formation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for high selectivity, avoiding propene's strong adsorption. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propene selectivity across different VOx species. The positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by up to three times compared to oxygen (O2), particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the suppression of nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species is also significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The primary C3H6 selectivity and the catalyst ability for consecutive C3H6 oxidation to COx are crucial parameters for designing selective catalysts. The use of N2O can mitigate catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. However, the lower activity of N2O compared to O2 remains a challenge. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction, facilitated by N2O, enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion decrease and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and optimize reaction conditions could improve N2O-ODHP's feasibility. For instance, developing more stable catalysts or refining reaction parameters could mitigate deactivation. -Sb2O4 and N2O synergistically control selectivity by inhibiting non-selective sites, indicating potential for advanced catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Steam activation and extraframework iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during gas-solid reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam-activated Fe-zeolites outperform commercial zeolites in initial propene yields, despite similar residual activities. The presence of mesopores in FeZSM-5, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration needing O2. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced state of catalytic sites, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, observed over various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with V2O5 nanocrystallites causing a drop in propene selectivity. Research suggests other oxygen species form from O2, participating in COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, necessitating further investigation. Studies on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show a turnover frequency of propane conversion is halved with N2O, yet propene selectivity increases to 80% versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is applied to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 and explore their reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke is a major challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke significantly reduces propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis reveals deactivation and coking correlations, but lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is needed to monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in real-time, crucial for understanding ODHP. Despite TEOM's detailed coke formation analysis, in situ N2O oxidation studies over iron zeolites are lacking, as is detailed investigation into catalyst reusability. Complementary spectroscopic studies and catalyst characterization methods are essential for overcoming limitations and advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and integrated process designs that incorporate regeneration techniques, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas, enhancing propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. N2O's presence shifts catalytic sites to a more reduced, selective state. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This separation favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with well-dispersed VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, as it is less favorable than O2 for catalyst reoxidation. Active sites with one to two lattice oxygen favor selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation and reduced propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 significantly decreases propene selectivity and increases COx production compared to N2O. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving stability. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation (CO, CO2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, exacerbated by propane's role in complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is not fully understood, and strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime are needed for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propene selectivity across different VOx species. The benefit of N2O stems from reducing surface density of active oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by up to three times compared to oxygen (O2), particularly when catalysts contain bulk-like V2O5 species. This is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these challenges involve optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the degree of reduction of vanadium species, leading to a higher reduction degree of VOx species, which is essential for achieving high primary propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propene oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, impacting practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts for higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests synergistic effects in mixed catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke. TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, measures real-time mass changes during gas-solid reactions, offering advantages over conventional methods. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species and zeolite structure influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction as noted in [3], is a critical issue. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, as seen in [8], but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, working in a more reduced state and limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to improve catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), as observed with various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx sites' increased activity for propene oxidation with higher agglomerization, leading to lower selectivity and direct propane oxidation, though less severe with N2O. Research is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, aiming to improve catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant issue, rapidly reducing propene yield. Deactivation rates vary among Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests active sites with varying sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM and GC have been used to monitor coking and deactivation, but they lack surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Despite this, detailed in situ studies and catalyst reusability assessments are lacking. Future research should focus on in situ investigations and catalyst regeneration to enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts under N2O, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as optimizing iron incorporation methods and developing stable catalyst formulations, are critical. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrating in situ regeneration techniques. The role of acidity in ODHP also requires further investigation to minimize deactivation. These advancements could make N2O-ODHP a more practical and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, as noted for Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. Its mechanism involves promoting a more reduced state of catalytic sites, favoring selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less effectively than O2. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O. O2 addition to C3H8+N2O decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, evidenced by its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, with superior performance after calcination ([3], [4]). However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue ([5]), exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion and deactivation mechanisms. Research is needed to understand deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke and extend catalyst life, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. Advanced research is needed to fully harness N2O's potential for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propylene selectivity across different VOx species. The mechanism involves reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by up to three times compared to oxygen (O2), particularly when catalysts contain bulk-like V2O5 species. This is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that N2O can lead to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, essential for suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. The importance of direct propane oxidation and consecutive propylene oxidation to COx is higher in O2 than in N2O. The catalytic performance is determined by oxidant activation, and N2O's lower oxidizing ability tunes the degree of reduction of vanadium species. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability could involve developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in ODHP selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research directions could focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which promotes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a key challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    