Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting non-selective oxygen species and controlling the catalyst's oxidation state. It inhibits O2 adsorption, increases catalyst reduction, and dissociates to provide O2 for propane oxidation to propene, keeping sites reduced. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, aiding practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This enhancement is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to reduced active lattice oxygen sites and suppressed propene oxidation to COx. The activity of VOx sites for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops dramatically with V2O5 nanocrystallites, with a less pronounced effect when using N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited experimental evidence exists on the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high initial propene outputs of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Active iron sites in FeZSM-5 vary in coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can be due to reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are crucial for studying coke formation and catalyst deactivation, revealing the need for detailed investigations under reaction conditions. Despite this, in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites are scarce, and the reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored. Advanced research is imperative to address these limitations and enhance catalyst stability, essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and improved propylene selectivity. Iron zeolites, especially when steam-activated, enhance propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Further research on acidity's role and catalyst regeneration could make N2O-ODHP more practical, as evidenced by the improved performance of steam-activated iron zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP leverages this potent greenhouse gas, enhancing propylene selectivity notably over iron and vanadium catalysts (Quotes 2,3). However, rapid deactivation, chiefly by coke formation (Quote 4), hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is imperative to bolster catalyst stability and elucidate deactivation mechanisms (Quote 5), paving the way for N2O's feasible implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, as evidenced by its ability to inhibit non-selective sites. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O isn't suitable for ODHP as O2 is crucial for catalyst regeneration, preventing rapid deactivation. The synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODHP highlights its potential. Further research is needed to optimize N2O usage and address catalyst deactivation issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx coverage on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's reduced reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors propene over COx, needing only 1-2 oxygen atoms, while more oxygen atoms favor waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming to enhance practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen in other oxidation reactions. At low concentrations, it enhances propylene yield and selectivity in nickel molybdate catalysts, reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations can improve catalyst stability and performance. Further research is crucial to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, unlike dioxygen which causes over-oxidation, as noted in [2]. Fe-ZSM-5 iron-zeolites, as mentioned in [3], are effective N2O-ODHP catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, a key issue highlighted in [5], requires research for stable catalysts and conditions to minimize coke formation, as stated in [8], and extend catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for high-performance ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propylene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propylene selectivity across different VOx species. The positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, attributed to the higher reduction degree of VOx species, crucial for high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but higher selectivity. Unlike O2, N2O doesn't produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, requiring strategies like optimizing catalyst structure, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production. Studies with NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O catalysts show N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research suggests N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity and inhibit non-selective sites, indicating potential for practical implementation with stable catalyst development and optimized reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing remarkable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, influence deactivation behavior. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance is linked to its iron constitution and porous structure, with mesopores reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by gently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits, as per [3] and [5], limits practical implementation. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with O2 reoxidation, as in [8], are strategies to address this. Research should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, likely due to its ability to maintain catalytic sites in a reduced state. The oxygen from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active oxygen sites, minimizing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity is high for isolated VOx sites but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites. N2O more effectively mitigates total propane oxidation than O2. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, as preliminary studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation. EPR spectroscopy can identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, aiding catalyst improvement for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields 24% initial propene with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is due to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, reduces propene yield. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex issue, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propane dehydrogenation in ODHP by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits its practicality. Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy offer insights into coke formation and deactivation mechanisms, crucial for understanding the ODHP reaction under real conditions. Yet, there's a lack of detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability in N2O-ODHP, highlighting the need for further research to address these limitations and enhance the process's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, with iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% yield (Quote 4, 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6), limiting stability and lifetime. Research indicates that deactivation is slower over steam-activated zeolites (Quote 20), highlighting the need for further investigation into the role of acidity in ODHP and strategies to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation (Quote 23). Advanced research is essential to make N2O-ODHP a more practical industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, particularly with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is essential to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing catalysts to a more selective state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and potentially limiting oxygen adsorption. Its presence modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. Molecular oxygen is necessary alongside N2O to maintain catalyst activity and prevent rapid deactivation. Research should focus on optimizing catalyst stability under N2O and O2 to advance practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials improve selectivity, tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms O2 as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its superiority is due to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite's capability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation limits performance. Higher temperatures, such as 773 K, reduce deactivation rates. O2 yields significantly lower propene (<5%) and decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with optimal performance at low concentrations. Higher concentrations reduce selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates catalyst oxidation state, enhancing performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation, unlike dioxygen ([2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for this process. However, catalyst deactivation ([5]) and the intricate conversion of N2O in the presence of propane pose significant challenges. Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, develop more stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke deposition and enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This results in consistent propene selectivity across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles. N2O's effectiveness is attributed to its role in lowering surface oxygen density in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at reduced surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. This enhancement is particularly evident with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O's lower tendency for direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx results in improved initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O decreasing CO2 selectivity and CO formation, indicating reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive C3H6 oxidation. The catalytic performance is oxidant-dependent, with N2O offering a more selective pathway for propene production. Challenges remain in maintaining catalyst stability and preventing deactivation, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, particularly on alumina and silica supports, due to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species. This is crucial for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, unlike O2, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have shown that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations involve optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. Advanced research is needed to precisely define the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O over reduced VOx species and to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in the selectivity of the ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased selectivity and reduced CO2 yield and propane conversion (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide, are used, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction and selectivity (Quote 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding N2O's role in inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction and selectivity (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance and FeBEA deactivating rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity with deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve practical implementation of N2O-ODHP, focusing on strategies to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP enhances propene selectivity by effectively reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating can restore activity, but full recovery necessitates oxygen. Research should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and devising efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. Its dissociation yields O, converting propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability, pivotal for practical application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as observed in n-butane's oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O compared to O2 reduces the concentration of active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, and selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41, as experimental evidence is limited. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identifies oxygen species reactive towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) shows promise, with Fe-zeolites achieving competitive 24% initial propene yields at high temperatures, akin to top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Its effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donor property and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propene yield, varying among Fe-zeolites with Fe-beta deactivating most rapidly. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is imperative to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quote [6]). Despite detailed insights into coke formation, in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites are lacking (Quote [9]), as is detailed research on catalyst reusability (Quote [10]). Complementary spectroscopic studies and catalyst characterization under reaction conditions are needed to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites like steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 (quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (quote 6). Research is needed to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and improve catalyst stability, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 leads in C3H6 production, but catalysts deactivate due to coke, limiting N2O's feasibility. Research on stable catalysts and deactivation mechanisms is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation by promoting a more selective catalyst state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O contributes to the reaction, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O leads to catalyst deactivation, highlighting the necessity of O2 for regeneration. N2O inhibits non-selective sites and, in synergy with O2, enhances selectivity by modulating the catalyst's oxidation state, suggesting promising research directions to overcome practical implementation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with VOx species fully covering supports and N2O's use as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation through advanced research is critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields up to 25%. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, such as 773 K, slow down deactivation, attributed to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying catalysts less susceptible to deactivation. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, offers higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, enhancing yield and selectivity at low concentrations while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2. At higher concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts, with calcination enhancing performance (Quotes 3 and 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) pose significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) remain unresolved, necessitating research to understand deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions for enhanced catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by unfavorably decomposing compared to O2, reducing active sites and boosting propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support improve selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for high-performance ODHP, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2, where selectivity is compromised. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene formation over combustion, highlighting N2O's role in improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies demonstrate up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts due to a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene yield. However, N2O yields lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, necessitating strategies to maintain high vanadium reduction and prevent nonselective oxygen species. Research should focus on oxygen species mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled active oxygen species density for optimized conditions. [Quote 1] highlights the increase in propene selectivity with N2O over vanadia catalysts. [Quote 3] explains the lower ODP activity with N2O due to its reduced ability to reoxidize VOx species. [Quote 5] notes that N2O does not produce nonselective oxygen species, unlike O2, which catalyzes nonselective propene oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reducing propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield, as studies with NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 catalysts show. It promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is key. Research could focus on developing stable catalysts with high activity and selectivity, optimizing reaction conditions, and using N2O to inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, measures real-time mass changes during gas-solid reactions, offering significant advantages over conventional methods. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The rapid deactivation in FeBEA correlates with large cavities in the BEA framework. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over other oxidants, as it reoxidizes vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, according to [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction as noted in [3] and [5], poses a significant challenge. Partial restoration of activity through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as observed in [8], suggests potential strategies. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods to make N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state to limit non-selective oxygen species. Its dissociated oxygen specifically converts propane to propene. Concentration adjustments offer a strategy to optimize selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, as observed in n-butane dehydrogenation. Kinetic analysis shows slower VOx reoxidation with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization affecting selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Research indicates alternative oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, highlighting the need for studies on oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41. Prior work on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP reveals a turnover frequency of propane conversion with O2, but N2O halves this while doubling propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP achieves high propene yields, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts, thanks to Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, limits propene yield. FeZSM-5's deactivation suggests varying iron site sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor boosts iron zeolites' efficiency in ODHP, enhancing propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation by coke deposition significantly impacts propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking and deactivation, while in situ FTIR spectroscopy is crucial for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in zeolite catalysts. Despite these tools, detailed in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability remain unexplored areas requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, notably steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, impacting stability and lifetime. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability, explore alternative iron sources, and develop integrated process designs for practical implementation, addressing the limitations of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates environmental impact by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Replacing oxygen with N2O boosts propylene yield, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is crucial for improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include developing coke-resistant catalysts and optimizing conditions to prevent deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by promoting a more selective catalyst state, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and selectivity (Quote 2, 3). At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that contribute to ODHP (Quote 5). However, pure N2O leads to catalyst deactivation due to lack of regeneration (Quote 17), necessitating molecular oxygen for effective operation (Quote 19). N2O's inhibition of non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity are key findings (Quote 19). Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Full coverage of the support with well-dispersed VOx species boosts propylene selectivity, while N2O's lower reoxidation ability compared to O2 further improves propene selectivity, as only one to two lattice oxygen are needed for selective propane oxidation to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes significant deactivation, reducing propene yields. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate deactivation by enhancing N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant drastically lowers C3H6 yields compared to N2O, with added O2 decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing selective catalyst systems for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective and pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, outperforms molecular oxygen in propylene selectivity, enhancing yield and selectivity at low concentrations while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation to CO and CO2 [2]. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts [3]. However, catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle [5], with propane complicating N2O conversion [6]. The deactivation mechanism is unclear [7], lacking methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst life [8]. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, enhancing catalyst stability, and optimizing conditions for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and increasing propene yield, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, and optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propylene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propylene formation at lower surface densities. Despite lower catalytic activity due to reduced VOx re-oxidation, N2O's selectivity benefits propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and improved propylene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences catalyst selectivity and activity, with N2O minimizing direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propylene selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by its use with NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 catalysts, and palladium/Zr-Ce-O. Its addition boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability are crucial, including developing stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. N2O's role in controlling selectivity, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests optimization potential. Under N2O, molybdenum in NiMoO4 works in a more reduced state, facilitating a more selective catalyst state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking by coke and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration can be achieved by heating under N2O at high temperatures, but full activity restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and devising effective regeneration methods to overcome these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen converts propane to propene, curbing non-selective oxygen formation. Concentration adjustments offer a strategy to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability, vital for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, observed with various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Similar effects are seen in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Slower VOx species reoxidation with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene to COx conversion. VOx site activity for propene oxidation rises with agglomerization; selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, more so with O2 than N2O. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, as non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and explore their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves high propene yields, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Steam-activated Fe-zeolites yield 24% propene, facilitated by N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation by coke deposition is a significant issue, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, deactivation rates vary, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation by coke (Quote 2) limits propylene yield. In situ spectroscopic studies, particularly FTIR, are required to understand coke formation and surface changes in real-time during hydrocarbon conversion. Detailed investigations of N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability post-regeneration are unexplored areas needing attention.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to O2. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed on iron sources, catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrated process designs for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Replacing oxygen with N2O boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based and redox metals. However, rapid deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires developing stable catalysts and understanding deactivation mechanisms, essential for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. It decreases propane and oxygen conversion, boosts propylene yield, and reduces CO2 selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O can induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O isn't suitable for ODHP as O2 is crucial for catalyst regeneration; without it, rapid deactivation occurs. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes the catalyst's oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP. Research should focus on developing catalysts that maintain stability in the presence of N2O and O2, ensuring efficient and selective ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials improve selectivity, while N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene yield compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, and atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, unlike polyatomic species which contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less deactivating active sites, and developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O to nickel molybdate catalysts enhances propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations. However, catalyst deactivation and stability challenges require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are key catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on N2O conversion, is a hurdle. Research is vital to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to curb coke formation, enhancing catalyst longevity for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, and optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene to COx conversion due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion. However, N2O's lower re-oxidation ability decreases catalytic activity. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and re-oxidation efficiency for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by 3x compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from N2O and O2 influences selectivity and activity, with N2O decreasing CO2 selectivity and CO formation, indicating a reduced tendency towards direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the higher reduction degree of VOx species. This results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization affects consecutive propene oxidation. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are more significant with O2 than N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, necessitating strategies to maintain high activity and selectivity. Advanced research is required to understand oxygen species formation and develop catalysts for sustained high performance under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction under N2O boosts catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Advanced research could optimize catalysts and reaction conditions. For instance, N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity and inhibit non-selective sites. Strategies to improve stability and reduce deactivation could make N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species and zeolite structure influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Direct N2O decomposition activity in FeZSM-5 suggests increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species in N2O activation and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by minimizing peroxovanadate formation, which curbs carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge, with carbon deposits playing a minor role. Partial activity restoration is achievable through catalyst regeneration under N2O at elevated temperatures, requiring oxygen for full recovery. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and refining regeneration techniques for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced state in catalytic sites, limiting non-selective oxygen species and controlling catalyst oxidation. The oxygen from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration offers a strategy to optimize selectivity, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium catalysts, outperforming O2 (Quote 1). Similar effects are seen in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide (Quote 2). Slower VOx reoxidation with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (Quote 3). VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomeration. Propene selectivity remains high until V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, causing a drop in selectivity and direct propane oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. The study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 with both oxidants, using EPR spectroscopy to assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP showcases superior propene yields (24%) akin to V and Mo-based catalysts, with Fe-zeolites as efficient catalysts. N2O's monooxygen donor role and Fe-zeolites' coordination of reactive oxygen species for dehydrogenation are critical. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites experience rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). The TEOM technique coupled with GC analysis effectively monitors coking and deactivation but lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and the reusability of regenerated catalysts, necessitating detailed studies under reaction conditions and across cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve a 22% propylene yield, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with steam-activated zeolites showing slower deactivation rates. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more practical petrochemical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, enhancing propylene selectivity over oxygen, particularly with iron-zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 excels in propylene yield, yet rapid deactivation, chiefly due to coke, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is crucial for stable catalysts and conditions to minimize coke, addressing N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by maintaining catalytic sites in a reduced state, favoring propylene over CO2. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species participate in the reaction, albeit less oxidizing than O2. This promotes a more selective reaction. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the presence of both O2 and N2O is crucial for improved selectivity in ODHP, as it modulates the catalyst's oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials improve selectivity, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene yield compared to O2. Active sites with one to two lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation is critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a monooxygen donor in ODHP over FeZSM-5 boosts propene yields, outperforming O2, which yields lower propene selectivity and increases COx production. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, a challenge mitigated by higher temperatures. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction conditions and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity and yield, especially with nickel molybdate catalysts, reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. However, high N2O concentrations decrease selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations can improve catalyst performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for this process (Quote 3). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and the complex conversion of N2O in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. Understanding the deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and preventing coke deposition (Quote 8) are essential for improving catalyst stability. Research should focus on these areas to enhance the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, despite reduced catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is consistent across VOx species with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity. N2O's benefit stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O's lower tendency for direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation results in improved initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a critical role, with N2O favoring propene formation over COx. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research to optimize catalyst performance and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, as demonstrated in recent studies. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx, as suggested for VOx/MCM-41 and VOx/γ-Al2O3. The use of N2O mitigates the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can lead to catalyst deactivation. However, the lower activity of N2O compared to O2 is a limitation. Strategies to address these challenges include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by a marked increase in selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium supported on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Advanced research could address these limitations by improving catalyst stability and reducing deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. For instance, N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites suggests avenues for advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its more open structure with mesopores from dealumination, which reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which reduces carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposit, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and devising efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, a strategy to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, as evidenced across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. This effect is less pronounced with N2O when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, causing a drop in propene selectivity. Research on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts reveals a turnover frequency of propane conversion with O2 that is twice as high as with N2O, yet propene selectivity is higher with N2O (80% vs. 50% at 10% propane conversion).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields 24% initial propene with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation limits propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, complementing TEOM-GC analysis for a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms (Quote [7]). Further research is needed on selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability, including the extent of performance recovery on successive reaction and regeneration cycles (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields than traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving significant propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. Iron impurities in steamed commercial H-ZSM-5 zeolites have been found to induce high propylene selectivity, minimizing COx formation. Further research is required to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Research is crucial for improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, aiming to develop more stable catalysts and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. Optimal selectivity in ODHP is achieved with a combination of O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. Research should focus on developing catalysts that maintain stability and selectivity in N2O-rich environments, addressing the limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be adjusted using N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, requiring fewer lattice oxygen species for propane oxidation compared to COx formation. Active sites with excess lattice oxygen favor waste product formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, attributed to its monooxygen donor role and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 significantly lowers C3H6 yields compared to N2O, with even small amounts decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperature to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective, pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially enhancing yield and reducing CO2 output. Optimal N2O concentration is crucial, as excess can lower selectivity and increase carbonaceous byproducts. Adjusting N2O can modulate catalyst oxidation state, improving performance. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major hurdles for practical ODHP implementation, necessitating advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts with enhanced performance post-calcination (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) pose significant hurdles. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) necessitate further exploration. Research should concentrate on elucidating deactivation, developing robust catalysts, and refining conditions to curb coke formation and prolong catalyst life, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for achieving high selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, effectively controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O surpasses O2 in ODHP by boosting propylene selectivity at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, slightly reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles exhibit consistent propylene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage lies in lowering surface lattice oxygen density in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion to COx and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation. Studies show that the oxidizing agent tunes the catalytic performance of vanadium oxides, with N2O reducing direct and consecutive oxidation pathways, thus enhancing propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, compared to oxygen (O2). This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is critical for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species leads to a higher degree of reduction, suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing that the specific surface area decreases with vanadium loading and the degree of polymerization of VOx species is influenced by the support material. Catalyst deactivation and stability are significant challenges, with strategies focusing on optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity. N2O can mitigate these issues by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that contribute to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by increased propylene yield and reduced CO2 production, as per quote 2. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are used, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for better selectivity, as quote 7 indicates. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity, as suggested by quote 8.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, measures mass changes during gas-solid reactions, correlating activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolite catalysts in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which minimizes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposition, poses a significant challenge. Partial catalyst regeneration through N2O heating and full restoration by oxygen reoxidation are viable strategies. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and refining efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. This curbs non-selective oxygen species and regulates catalyst oxidation. N2O-derived O specifically oxidizes propane to propene, offering selectivity benefits. Concentration adjustments can optimize selectivity, a key strategy for catalytic reaction enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, as well as in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide catalysts. Kinetic analysis indicates slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to reduced active lattice oxygen and suppressed propene oxidation to COx. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Research suggests that other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Studies aim to identify these species using EPR spectroscopy, focusing on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. Propane conversion turnover frequency is higher with O2, but propene selectivity is superior with N2O, at 80% versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields 24% initial propene at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation limits performance, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and overcome deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation from coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced research, including in situ FTIR spectroscopy for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in zeolite catalysts (Quote 7), is essential to understand deactivation mechanisms and catalyst regeneration under reaction conditions (Quote 6). The reusability of regenerated catalysts requires detailed investigation (Quote 10). TEOM and spectroscopic studies provide insights into deactivation and regeneration, complementing infrared results (Quotes 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12), underscoring the need for further in situ studies to fully comprehend the ODHP process with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and integrated process designs that incorporate regeneration techniques, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and environmental stewardship by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, particularly with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based materials, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and optimized conditions to minimize coke formation, necessitating further research on deactivation mechanisms for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inducing a more reduced state in catalytic sites, promoting selective reactions (Quote 3). At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that still catalyze ODHP (Quote 5). However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation (Quote 19). The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, explaining enhanced selectivity in ODHP (Quote 19). Advanced research is required to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, as per quote 1. This separation, noted in quote 3, favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Quote 4 explains that N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces VOx site reoxidation, improving propene selectivity. Quote 5 attributes this effect to N2O's less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, as more oxygen promotes waste product formation. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency stems from its role as a monooxygen donor and iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant issue, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 as an oxidant leads to lower C3H6 yields and increased COx production, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research is needed on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective, pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with optimal performance at lower concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing catalytic performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability challenges hinder practical implementation, necessitating advanced research strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts for N2O-ODHP, exhibiting enhanced performance post-calcination (Quotes 3, 4). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive properties (Quote 6), and the unclear deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) pose significant hurdles. Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation pathways, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to curb coke deposition (Quote 8), thereby enhancing N2O-ODHP's practical viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, improving efficiency. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms O2 in ODHP, offering higher propene selectivity at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This stoichiometric advantage favors selective propene formation over combustion. Despite lower catalytic activity, propene selectivity remains consistent across different VOx species, highlighting N2O's role in enhancing reaction specificity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering up to three times higher selectivity compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion to COx and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, as demonstrated in recent studies. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity compared to O2 but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges in N2O-ODHP, with strategies focusing on advanced catalyst design and optimization of reaction conditions to enhance stability and selectivity. Research directions aim to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield, as evidenced by a 32% increase in propylene selectivity with 300 ppm N2O for pure NiMoO4. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, indicating practical limitations. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions, could make N2O-ODHP more feasible. The role of -Sb2O4 in oxygen spillover and N2O's inhibition of oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 suggest a mechanism for selectivity modulation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, cause deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its porous structure and mesopores, which reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport. Direct N2O decomposition activity in FeZSM-5 suggests increased resistance to coke deactivation, making it a promising catalyst for practical implementation. Steam activation and the presence of iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. The TEOM reveals that the nature of iron species, zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation, providing insights into catalyst stability and potential strategies for improvement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by minimizing peroxovanadate formation, which reduces carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating can restore activity, but full recovery necessitates oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and devising efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, providing a controlled oxidation state. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration modulates selectivity, optimizing the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization, increasing consecutive propene oxidation and direct propane oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Research indicates non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency halving with N2O, yet propene selectivity rose to 80% from 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identifies oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, highlighting the need for advanced research to address limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields high propene with Fe-zeolites, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2 (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003; Prez-Ramrez and Gallardo-Llamas,2004). Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5 (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003). Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality degradation, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, as noted in quote [1]. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation, mentioned in quote [2], significantly reduces propylene yield. Advanced in situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy, as discussed in quotes [3]-[8], are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms. Yet, detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability, highlighted in quotes [9]-[10], are lacking. Research is needed to address these limitations, focusing on the deactivation of iron-containing zeolites in C3H8 + N2O reactions and the catalyst's reversibility on reaction and regeneration cycles, as suggested in quotes [6], [11], and [12].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to O2, with iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% yield (Quote 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Further research on iron sources, catalyst stability, and integrated process designs with regeneration steps could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality, as suggested by the positive effect of steaming on iron zeolites (Quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP leverages a potent greenhouse gas, enhancing propylene selectivity over oxygen, notably with iron-zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Iron-based Fe-ZSM-5 and redox metals like vanadium and molybdenum are effective. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is needed for stable catalysts and conditions to minimize coke, making N2O-ODHP viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inducing a more selective reaction at concentrations above 300 ppm, as it provides less oxidative oxygen species than O2 (Quote 2, 3, 5). However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, explaining improved selectivity in ODHP (Quote 19). Advanced research is required to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation and promoting spatial separation of VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and can be tuned using N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Advanced research is needed to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency stems from its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation limits propene yield, with slower deactivation at higher temperatures. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, reducing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx production. Strategies to tackle catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less susceptible active sites. A cost-effective N2O source could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, exhibits superior propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at lower concentrations while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2 (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, with enhanced performance post-calcination (Quote [3]). Catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a major challenge (Quote [5]). Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms (Quote [7]) and improve catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by less favorable decomposition, reducing active sites and favoring propene formation (Quote 1). Optimizing active lattice oxygen, achieved by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4). Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are essential for high selectivity (Quote 3). Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but consistent propene selectivity across VOx species. The mechanism involves reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP by up to three times over O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, due to its ability to increase the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The primary C3H6 selectivity and catalyst ability for consecutive C3H6 oxidation to COx are critical for designing selective catalysts. N2O mitigates catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. However, the lower activity of N2O compared to O2 remains a challenge. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts catalyst selectivity. Challenges involve decreased propane conversion and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and optimize reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility. Developing stable catalysts and refining reaction parameters could mitigate deactivation. -Sb2O4 and N2O synergistically control selectivity by inhibiting non-selective sites, suggesting potential for advanced catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Steam activation and extraframework iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during gas-solid reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam-activated Fe-zeolites outperform commercial zeolites in initial propene yields, despite similar residual activities. The presence of mesopores in FeZSM-5, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration can be achieved by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring O2. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced state of catalytic sites, reducing non-selective oxygen species. Oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, aiding in overcoming catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to O2. The mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation, especially with V2O5 nanocrystallites, leading to a drop in propene selectivity. Research indicates that other oxygen species form from O2, unlike N2O, participating in COx formation. Studies on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show propane conversion turnover frequency is halved with N2O, yet propene selectivity increases to 80% versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. Further investigation is needed to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, as limited data exists.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields 24% propene with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2 (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003; Prez-Ramrez and Gallardo-Llamas,2004). Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is due to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003). However, coke-induced deactivation is a major challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore space accessibility (Moulijn et al., 2001).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). While TEOM with GC analysis reveals deactivation and coking correlations, it lacks insights into the deactivation mechanism at the catalyst surface level. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is essential for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quote 6). There's a lack of in situ studies on N2O oxidation over iron zeolites and detailed investigation into catalyst reusability (Quote 9). Complementary spectroscopic studies and catalyst characterization methods are vital for overcoming limitations and advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants, with iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% yield (Quote 4, 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation (Quote 20). Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and integrated process designs that incorporate regeneration techniques, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP leverages its potent greenhouse gas properties, enhancing propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Replacing oxygen with N2O significantly boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-based Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is crucial for improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, enhancing catalytic performance by shifting sites to a more reduced, selective state. It inhibits non-selective propane activation, increasing propylene yield while decreasing CO2 selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O provides oxygen species, inducing ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Full coverage of the support with well-dispersed VOx species and N2O's lower reoxidation ability improve propene selectivity. Active sites with one to two lattice oxygen species favor selective propane oxidation to propene. Addressing catalyst stability and deactivation through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels, achieving high propene yields. Its efficiency is attributed to its monooxygen donor role and iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation and reduced propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation. O2 significantly decreases propene selectivity and increases COx production compared to N2O. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing yield and selectivity. Its concentration modulates catalyst oxidation state, potentially improving stability. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation compared to dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for this process. However, catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge, with the mechanism not fully understood, and strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime are crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation (Quote 1,2). Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4), vital for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that curbs direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in reduced catalytic activity but consistent propylene selectivity across VOx species. N2O's advantage lies in lowering the surface density of active oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP by up to three times over O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, enhancing catalyst reduction. This reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influence selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these challenges involve optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the degree of reduction of vanadium species, leading to a higher reduction degree of VOx species, which is essential for achieving high primary propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propene oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts catalyst selectivity, akin to -Sb2O4's role. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, affecting practicality. Research should focus on stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and new catalysts for higher activity and selectivity. N2O and -Sb2O4 synergistically control selectivity and inhibit non-selective sites in mixed catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, with initial propene yields significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke. TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, measures real-time mass changes during gas-solid reactions, offering advantages over conventional methods. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The nature of iron species and zeolite structure influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as [1] and [2] highlight. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a significant issue. [8] shows that regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on improving catalyst stability and developing effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption, promoting a more reduced catalyst state, and limiting non-selective oxygen species. Its dissociated oxygen converts propane to propene. Concentration adjustments of N2O can enhance selectivity, a strategy for catalyst optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), as evidenced with various catalysts. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' increased activity for propene oxidation with higher agglomerization leads to lower selectivity and direct propane oxidation, although this effect is less pronounced with N2O. Research is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, aiming to improve catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest among Fe-zeolites. Active sites in FeZSM-5 show varying sensitivity to coke, indicating complex deactivation mechanisms involving reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, as per quote 1. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation from coke, impacting propylene yield, as noted in quote 2. Advanced techniques like TEOM and GC monitor coking and deactivation, but lack insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP, as suggested in quotes 6 and 7. Detailed in situ studies and catalyst reusability assessments are lacking, as highlighted in quotes 9 and 10. Future research should focus on in situ investigations and catalyst regeneration to enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields than traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, as noted in studies where activities were reported at varying degrees of deactivation. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as optimizing iron incorporation methods and developing stable catalyst formulations, are critical. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrating in situ regeneration techniques. The role of acidity in ODHP also requires further investigation to minimize deactivation, as a high number of protonic acid sites can accelerate zeolite deactivation. These advancements could make N2O-ODHP a more practical and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP harnesses this potent greenhouse gas, enhancing propylene selectivity over oxygen, as seen with Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, often due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is imperative to boost catalyst stability and elucidate deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP a viable option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. Its mechanism involves promoting a more reduced state of catalytic sites, favoring selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less effectively than O2. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP a more practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with VOx species fully covering V/g-Al2O3 and N2O's use as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 boosts propylene selectivity, achieving 25% yield at 723 K. Its efficiency stems from N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propylene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propylene compared to N2O. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing propylene yield while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize catalytic performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts. However, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Q[2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts, with enhanced performance post-calcination (Q[3], Q[4]). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicates N2O conversion (Q[5], Q[6]). Research is crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and extend catalyst life, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by lowering active site concentration and favoring propene formation, as seen in Quotes 1 and 2. Well-dispersed vanadia species, per Quote 3, boost selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen with N2O, as in Quote 4, controls selective oxidation and combustion, tackling catalyst stability and deactivation. Advanced research is vital for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propylene selectivity across VOx species. The mechanism involves reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP by up to three times over O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, enhancing catalyst reduction. N2O curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly affects selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, necessitating advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, particularly alumina- and silica-supported, compared to oxygen (O2). This is due to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. N2O leads to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propylene oxidation to COx are more significant in O2 than in N2O. The catalytic performance is determined by oxidant activation, and N2O's lower oxidizing ability tunes the degree of reduction of vanadium species. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability could involve developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in ODHP selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). Molybdenum reduction by N2O (Quote 3) boosts catalyst selectivity (Quote 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Steam activation and iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP, potentially regenerating the catalyst surface through atomic oxygen recombination and desorption as O2, reacting with coke at specific locations of the zeolite at operating temperature, resulting in COx.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise boosts carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Partial activity restoration is achievable through high-temperature N2O regeneration, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research emphasis should be on improving catalyst stability, curtailing vanadium reduction, and devising effective regeneration strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    