Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, thus controlling oxidation state and inhibiting non-selective oxygen species. Its dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration offers a strategy to optimize selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as well as in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high until V2O5 nanocrystallites form, causing a drop in selectivity and direct propane oxidation, less severe with N2O. Research suggests additional oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, half that with N2O, but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%). Further investigation is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, which could address catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves high initial propene yields of 24% at temperatures around 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than other zeolites. FeZSM-5's behavior indicates varying sensitivity of iron sites to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor boosts iron zeolites' performance in ODHP by enhancing propane dehydrogenation efficiency (Quote [1]). However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propylene yield (Quote [2]). While TEOM-GC analysis effectively correlates deactivation with coking, it lacks insights into the surface-level deactivation mechanism. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quote [6]). Research gaps include in situ N2O oxidation studies over iron zeolites and detailed catalyst reusability assessments (Quote [9]). Complementary spectroscopic methods and catalyst characterization techniques are recommended to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields than traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve remarkable propylene yields up to 22% at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrating regeneration steps for practical implementation. The role of acidity in deactivation, as suggested by the rapid deactivation of iron zeolites with high Brnsted acid sites, requires further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP leverages a potent greenhouse gas, enhancing propylene selectivity over oxygen, notably with iron and redox metal catalysts. Yet, rapid deactivation, chiefly by coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is imperative to bolster catalyst stability and elucidate deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP. However, pure N2O is unsuitable as it requires O2 for catalyst regeneration to prevent rapid deactivation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state during ODHP, as evidenced by improved selectivity and yield in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation ([1]). Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 ([2]), and N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene yield ([5]). Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O vs. O2 increases selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 oxygen atoms favor propene over COx, while sites with >2 oxygen atoms favor waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 affect catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen leading to COx formation ([8]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving notable propylene yields due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propylene yield. Higher temperatures, notably 773 K, mitigate deactivation by enhancing N2O conversion. Oxygen's presence significantly decreases propylene selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less susceptible active sites. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield while increasing propylene yield. At higher concentrations, selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can improve catalyst stability and performance, addressing critical challenges in the N2O-ODHP process, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing over-oxidation to CO and CO2, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP, as demonstrated by prior research. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, limits their longevity. Investigating deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could significantly enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality, addressing the key challenge of catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its less favorable decomposition over O2 activation reduces active sites and increases propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity by preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, crucial for propane and propene activation, is achieved by N2O, controlling selective oxidation and combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which limits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in reduced catalytic activity, as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent for both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity for V2O5 nanoparticles. N2O's benefit is attributed to lowering surface oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly advantageous with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for the practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, as evidenced by studies on vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is pivotal for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O yields lower ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen being nonselective. N2O's reduced ability to reoxidize VOx species benefits by suppressing nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization degree affects consecutive propene oxidation activity. Challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by developing catalysts with controlled active oxygen species density and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to understand oxygen species mechanisms and develop new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by [2]. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction and improving selectivity [7]. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Advanced research could address these limitations, focusing on enhancing catalyst stability and reducing deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which rapidly deactivates due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been observed. Deactivation by coke is a major drawback, especially in FeMFI zeolites. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which minimizes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to avoid vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by controlling oxygen supply and maintaining a reduced catalyst state, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting promoter concentration, as suggested, can modulate selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over iron zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity drops with agglomerized VOx sites, but N2O mitigates this effect. Studies suggest N2O forms fewer non-lattice oxygen species than O2, impacting COx formation. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed half the propane conversion rate with N2O compared to O2, yet propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, aiding in understanding the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields high propene outputs, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, thanks to Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen from N2O for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, limits performance, with varying sensitivity among iron sites in FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen ([1]). However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke, reducing propylene yield ([2]). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and catalyst regeneration, as in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites are lacking ([6], [9]). Techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor coke formation and surface changes ([7], [8]), but more studies are required to explore the deactivation mechanism and catalyst reusability ([10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites, as reported by independent research groups [4]. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve a 22% propylene yield [7]. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge [6], with steam-activated zeolites showing slower deactivation rates [20]. Further research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques [19]. Understanding the role of acidity and iron impurities in ODHP is crucial for improving catalyst performance and practical implementation [23].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is crucial for improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, suggesting strategies like developing stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inducing a more selective state in catalysts. At concentrations over 300 ppm, it dissociates to provide oxygen species that promote ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, using pure N2O is unadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces molybdenum catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. Optimal selectivity in ODHP is achieved with a combination of O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials improve selectivity, further tuned by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, while more oxygen species promote waste products. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, unlike polyatomic species involved in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 showcases high propene yields up to 25% at 723 K, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Research directions focus on optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods to address these limitations, aiming for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. At low concentrations, N2O enhances propylene yield and selectivity, while higher concentrations decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance and addressing stability issues, a critical challenge in N2O-ODHP. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts ([3]). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant effect and complex N2O conversion ([5], [6]), is a major hurdle. Research is essential to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to curb coke formation, enhancing catalyst longevity for practical N2O-ODHP implementation ([8]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2 by reducing active sites, as its decomposition is less favorable. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for high selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but enhances selectivity. Both surface VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles show similar propene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage lies in lowering surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, attributed to its reduced re-oxidation capacity of VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. Studies reveal up to threefold higher propylene selectivity with N2O, notably with bulk-like V2O5. N2O curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species' nature from O2 and N2O impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is imperative to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, due to its influence on the reduction degree of VOx species. N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing the importance of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, in COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical, requiring strategies to control the surface density of active oxygen species and optimize conditions for selective species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. This is facilitated by the reduction of molybdenum in NiMoO4 catalysts, promoting selectivity. N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, aiding catalyst reduction. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding additives like -Sb2O4 in controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, are generated by steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. A TEOM coupled with GC analysis correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is critical for high catalytic activities, as it generates extraframework iron species responsible for propane oxydehydrogenation. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane oxydehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which increases carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is possible through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, providing a controlled oxygen source for propane oxidation. In a reduced state, catalytic sites favor propene production. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, optimizing the reaction. Research on catalyst stability and deactivation is vital for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over iron zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. This is also observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage, but V2O5 nanocrystallites lower selectivity and cause propane's total oxidation, lessened by N2O. N2O yields 80% propene selectivity vs. O2's 50% at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower turnover frequency. Further research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 to address catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene production, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance, thanks to Fe-zeolites' efficiency. Fe-zeolites' success is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, hinders propene yield, with varying deactivation rates among Fe-zeolites. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is crucial to overcome these limitations, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by enabling iron zeolites to coordinate reactive oxygen, as per quote [1]. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates these catalysts, as noted in quote [2], leading to decreased propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking and deactivation. In situ FTIR spectroscopy, as mentioned in quote [7], is essential for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and changes in zeolite framework vibrations, aiding in understanding deactivation mechanisms. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability, as highlighted in quote [10], are lacking, necessitating further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants, with iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% yield (Quote 4, 7). Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites that catalyze coke formation (Quote 20). Further research is required to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and explore alternative iron sources to enhance resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical (Quote 23).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP leverages its potent greenhouse gas properties, enhancing propylene selectivity notably over oxygen, as seen with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is imperative to bolster catalyst stability and elucidate deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating catalyst oxidation states, enhancing selectivity. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species. Pure N2O causes catalyst deactivation, necessitating O2 for regeneration. N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the O2-N2O synergy modulates catalyst oxidation for improved selectivity. Advanced research is crucial for overcoming catalyst stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 boosts selectivity, while N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene yield. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration aids propane oxidation to propene over COx. Active sites with excess lattice oxygen promote waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen aiding selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, outperforming O2, which produces <5% propene. N2O's effectiveness is attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms in the zeolite that coordinate reactive oxygen. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially increasing yield and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease selectivity. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can optimize catalyst performance, addressing deactivation and stability issues. Research is needed to fine-tune N2O concentration for enhanced propylene selectivity and practical ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which often causes over-oxidation. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts, especially after severe calcination. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role complicating N2O conversion, is a critical challenge. Research on deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation is vital for enhancing catalyst longevity and practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by optimizing active oxygen concentration, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation (Quote 2). High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote 3). Using N2O over O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation (Quote 4). Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propylene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by minimizing VOx species re-oxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction compared to O2. This results in up to three times higher selectivity, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O's reduced tendency for direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx contributes to improved selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical for implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, particularly due to the formation of nonselective oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations could involve developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, as seen in a study where selectivity rose significantly while propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield decreased (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide are used, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for better selectivity (Quote 3, 7). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding how N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity by inhibiting non-selective sites and facilitating molybdenum reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving notable propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are critical for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to mesopores from dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits, poses a significant challenge. Partial catalyst regeneration is achievable with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity restoration requires O2. Future research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration techniques to make N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and fostering a reduced catalyst state, which limits non-selective oxygen species formation. Dissociated oxygen from N2O oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction and address catalyst limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation rises with agglomeration, but selectivity drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Research indicates non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on oxygen species from O2 and N2O. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 using EPR spectroscopy. With O2, propane conversion's turnover frequency was 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1, while N2O halved this but doubled propene selectivity to 80% at 10% propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields 24% initial propene, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites, specifically Fe-beta, Fe-silicalite, and FeZSM-5, are effective due to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, more pronounced in Fe-beta, limits propene yield. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by acting as a mono-oxygen donor, enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, a key advantage. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke, leading to reduced propylene yield, is a significant challenge. Advanced research using techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst stability. These methods can monitor coke formation and surface changes, but detailed studies under reaction conditions are lacking. The reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored, highlighting the need for comprehensive investigations to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants (Quote 4). Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated ones, are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 6) is a significant challenge. Steam activation slows deactivation (Quote 20), indicating the importance of acidity in the process. Future research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques to address deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODP) by reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O maintains catalytic sites in a reduced state, inhibiting non-selective propane activation. At higher concentrations, N2O provides oxygen species for ODP, less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is crucial for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODP are key findings, highlighting the need for advanced research to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen participates in COx formation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels, achieving 25% propene yield at 723 K, due to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, and its addition decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying stable catalysts. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially reducing propane conversion but enhancing propylene yield and selectivity. It decreases oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges that require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation compared to dioxygen (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote [3]). Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge, necessitates research for improved stability and lifetime (Quote [5]). Addressing coke deposition and enhancing catalyst lifetime are critical for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation (Quote [8]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to less favorable decomposition, as per quotes [1] and [2]. High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species (quote [3]). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration using N2O (quote [4]) controls selective oxidation and combustion, making N2O-ODHP promising but requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces catalytic activity by less efficient re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation. Studies show that propene selectivity can be increased when O2 is replaced by N2O, with the most significant improvements achieved for catalysts possessing bulk-like V2O5 species. The improved ODP performance with N2O is due to its lower ability to re-oxidize reduced VOx species, resulting in a higher degree of catalyst reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODP reaction. N2O decomposition over reducible metal oxides yields selective mononuclear oxygen species. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that N2O can lead to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, essential for high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Strategies could involve understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxides, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction, are key. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on stabilizing catalysts, exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, and optimizing reaction conditions to mitigate deactivation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Deactivation occurs due to coke formation, impacting catalyst performance. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, and the more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as in [8], can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring O2. Research should focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption, promoting catalyst reduction, and selectively oxidizing propane to propylene. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize selectivity, mitigating catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propylene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation of VOx, as demonstrated with VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields high propene production, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, thanks to Fe-zeolites' specificity as monooxygen donors and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, varying among Fe-zeolites with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity. However, coke deposition significantly deactivates catalysts, reducing propylene yield. While TEOM-GC analysis offers insights into deactivation, it lacks detail on surface-level mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability, necessitating further investigation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by decreasing the number of Brnsted acid sites that catalyze coke formation. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced iron sources and incorporation methods, along with catalysts designed to resist deactivation, could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalyst development and understanding deactivation mechanisms for improved N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. Pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation; molecular O2 is crucial for regeneration. N2O reduces molybdenum catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity compared to O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration in VOx species favors propene over COx, needing fewer oxygen atoms. Active sites with excess oxygen promote waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen linked to COx formation. Direct evidence is lacking, but the improving effect of N2O on propene selectivity is attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than by O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation limits propene yield, with higher temperatures reducing deactivation rates. FeZSM-5 exhibits slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant significantly lowers C3H6 yields compared to N2O, with small additions decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen in other oxidation reactions. Incorporating N2O into nickel molybdate catalysts initially reduces propane conversion but increases propylene yield and selectivity, while decreasing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Excessive N2O concentration, however, diminishes propylene selectivity and promotes carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentration, akin to N2O, could enhance catalyst performance and tackle stability and deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are potent catalysts, with enhanced performance post-calcination (Quote 4). Catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductant role, complicates N2O conversion (Quotes 5, 6). The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is intricate (Quote 7), lacking current solutions to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst life (Quote 8). Research should target deactivation mechanisms, stable catalyst development, and condition optimization to minimize coke and maximize catalyst longevity, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene over propane conversion, as per quote [1]. Quote [2] explains that N2O's less favorable decomposition increases propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species, as in quote [3], boost selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen with N2O, as quote [4] suggests, controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity, as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from decreasing surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences catalyst selectivity and activity, with N2O offering improved performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, as shown with vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. The lower reactivity of N2O leads to a higher reduction degree of VOx species, critical for high propylene selectivity and suppression of propene oxidation to CO and CO2. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 reveal that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, impacts COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major hurdles, with research focusing on developing catalysts with controlled active oxygen species density and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species. Advanced studies are required to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, and to design new catalysts that sustain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by a significant increase in selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts catalyst selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality, and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding N2O's role in inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving significant initial propylene yields. Deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. The TEOM technique reveals faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, exploring the role of iron species in N2O decomposition, and mitigating coke formation to improve practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity, reoxidizing vanadium without reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, thus controlling the oxidation state and inhibiting non-selective oxygen species. Its dissociated oxygen converts propane to propene, and adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as observed in n-butane dehydrogenation. Its mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene to COx conversion. VOx agglomerization increases consecutive propene oxidation, impacting selectivity. Research indicates N2O forms fewer COx-producing species compared to O2, highlighting the need for further investigation into oxygen species from both oxidants. Prior studies on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP show N2O halves the turnover frequency of propane conversion while doubling propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species from N2O and O2, exploring their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP achieves high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy stems from N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, significantly reduces propene yield. FeZSM-5 exhibits varying iron site sensitivity to coke, indicating complex deactivation mechanisms involving active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by coordinating reactive oxygen species, as seen in iron zeolites. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke buildup hinders propylene yield. The TEOM technique, combined with GC analysis, effectively tracks coking and deactivation. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is vital for understanding coke formation and surface acidity changes in zeolite catalysts during hydrocarbon conversion. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are scarce, underscoring the need for further research to address these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants, as highlighted in recent studies. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing reaction conditions and developing more stable catalyst formulations. Research directions focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrating regeneration techniques for practical implementation, as suggested by the positive effect of steaming on the catalytic performance of iron zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Iron-based and redox metal catalysts, like vanadium and molybdenum, boost propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is vital to improve stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more feasible.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODP) by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, promoting selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that induce ODP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable for ODP as it necessitates molecular oxygen to regenerate the catalysts, averting rapid deactivation. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O contribute to improved selectivity in ODP, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Its lower reoxidation ability increases catalyst reduction, spatially separating active lattice oxygen, crucial for selective propane oxidation. Propylene selectivity improves on V/g-Al2O3 with well-dispersed VOx species, and N2O's oxidant role can be tuned for selectivity enhancement. N2O's less favorable reoxidation boosts propene selectivity compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen species favor propene over COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability challenges require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 catalysts showcases superior propene selectivity, achieving yields up to 25% at 723 K. This is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, such as 773 K, mitigate deactivation, with slower rates and higher N2O conversion. Oxygen (O2) as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O, and small additions decrease propene selectivity and increase COx, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming to enhance practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially reducing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity. It decreases oxygen consumption and CO2 yield, with higher concentrations affecting selectivity and forming carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can improve catalytic performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts. Critical challenges, including catalyst deactivation and stability, require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing CO/CO2 formation. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, notably after calcination, are effective. However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductant role, is a hurdle. Unclear deactivation mechanisms and coke deposition limit catalyst lifespan. Research should clarify deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke and enhance longevity, advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and increasing propene yield, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion. This strategy addresses catalyst deactivation and stability issues, highlighting research directions for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms O2 in ODHP, enhancing propylene selectivity while inhibiting direct propane and propylene oxidation to COx due to its milder oxidizing strength. This reduces re-oxidation of surface VOx, affecting catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when using N2O, unlike with O2. The benefit of N2O lies in lowering surface lattice oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion. Advanced research is crucial to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This enhancement is particularly notable with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation. Strategies should concentrate on optimizing catalyst properties and understanding the role of oxygen species in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, due to its influence on the reduction degree of VOx species. N2O's lower reoxidation ability results in a higher degree of reduction, suppressing nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, enhancing selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. N2O mitigates catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective oxygen species. However, N2O's lower activity compared to O2 is a limitation. Strategies to address these include optimizing catalyst structure, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts catalyst selectivity, akin to -Sb2O4's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, impacting practicality. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and exploring new catalysts for higher activity and selectivity. Synergistic effects in mixed catalysts suggest potential for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The resistance to deactivation in FeZSM-5 may be linked to its porous structure and iron constitution. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen, which can partially regenerate the catalyst surface by reacting with coke, forming COx. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over other oxidants, despite lower propane conversion, by uniquely reoxidizing vanadium without peroxovanadate formation. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly from vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, but full recovery necessitates oxygen. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, curtailing vanadium reduction, and devising effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its dissociation yields O that oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O and promoter concentrations can tackle catalyst deactivation and stability issues, offering a promising path for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' increased activity for propene oxidation with higher agglomerization is a challenge. Propene selectivity drops when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, but N2O mitigates this. Research suggests N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation. Further studies aim to identify oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41, crucial for enhancing selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in propane ODHP, matches the propylene yields achieved with V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, thanks to Fe-zeolites' superior performance. N2O's monooxygen donor role and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation are highlighted. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta zeolites, poses a significant challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by coordinating reactive oxygen with iron species in zeolites. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates these catalysts, impacting propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC, effectively monitors coking and deactivation but lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding ODHP. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, as are in situ investigations of N2O over iron zeolites. Complementary spectroscopic studies and analyses of fresh, coked, and regenerated catalysts by XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption are needed for a comprehensive understanding.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to O2. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield (Quote 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Strategies to address this include optimizing iron incorporation methods, enhancing catalyst stability, and integrating regeneration techniques. Further research on acidity's role and alternative iron sources could make N2O-ODHP more practical (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, notably with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is crucial for improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O's dissociation provides less oxidative oxygen species, contributing to ODHP. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's effectiveness in improving selectivity is linked to its ability to modulate the catalyst's state, especially in the presence of O2. Advanced research is imperative to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical use, focusing on enhancing catalyst stability and addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be adjusted using N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity by reducing active sites' oxygen, favoring propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen aiding selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen promoting COx formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels due to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species, achieving high propylene yields. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation, reducing propylene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propylene compared to N2O, and small O2 additions decrease propylene selectivity and increase COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming to enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, modifies catalyst performance by decreasing propane conversion and increasing propylene yield at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting N2O concentration can improve catalyst stability and performance. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as seen with dioxygen [2]. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts [3], but face challenges with complex N2O conversion and unclear deactivation mechanisms. Research is crucial to understand deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support further boost selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O surpasses O2 in ODHP by enhancing propylene selectivity at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, slightly lowering catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when N2O is used, unlike O2's selectivity issues with V2O5. N2O's advantage stems from lowering the surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2 by limiting re-oxidation of reduced VOx species, as demonstrated in studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. This results in a higher degree of catalyst reduction, which is crucial for improved initial propene selectivity. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, significantly improving propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene formation. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high selectivity. However, N2O's lower reoxidation ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. N2O prevents the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which catalyze consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, requiring controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimized conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Research should focus on oxygen species mechanisms and developing catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, slightly reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield, as evidenced by studies showing increased selectivity with N2O addition (Quotes 2, 5, 6). Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide are crucial, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity (Quotes 7, 10). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Future research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its iron constitution and porous structure, which may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, providing insights into deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion, as noted in [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction as mentioned in [3] and [5], poses a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as seen in [8], partially restores activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing effective regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene, curbing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration offers a strategy to modulate selectivity, advancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP compared to O2, observed across iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, necessitating further research. N2O halves propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields 24% initial propene with Fe-zeolites at high temperatures, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' success is due to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, reduces propene yield. FeZSM-5's deactivation suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM coupled with GC analysis offer insights into deactivation mechanisms, but lack surface-level detail. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation and regeneration. Despite these tools, in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking, as is detailed research on catalyst reusability and regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 (quote [4]). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation (quote [6]) is a significant challenge. Steam activation improves catalyst stability by reducing Brnsted acid sites (quote [20]), which are linked to coke formation. Strategies to address deactivation include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and employing in situ regeneration. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrate regeneration steps (quote [7]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP leverages its greenhouse gas status for environmental gain, notably enhancing propylene selectivity, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is imperative to bolster catalyst stability and elucidate deactivation mechanisms, potentially optimizing N2O-ODHP for real-world application.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, enhancing yield while reducing propane and O2 conversion. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP. Its presence shifts catalysts to a more selective, reduced state. However, pure N2O causes catalyst deactivation; O2 is crucial for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O affects catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic species participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a superior oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits performance, with higher temperatures reducing deactivation rates. O2 yields significantly lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O, and its addition decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and yield, reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Its addition enhances catalytic performance, but challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability persist. Adjusting N2O concentration can improve catalytic efficiency, yet advanced research is needed to address limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation is a critical issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism and coke deposition remain unresolved, limiting catalyst lifetime. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for high-performance ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that limits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx. This results in reduced catalytic activity as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent across VOx species with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's advantage stems from lowering surface lattice oxygen density in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, attributed to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in decreased direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is imperative to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation issues for practical implementation. Studies over VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 materials confirm that replacing O2 with N2O increases propene selectivity, with the most significant improvements observed for samples with bulk-like V2O5 species. The improved performance with N2O is due to its lower re-oxidation ability, increasing the degree of catalyst reduction. Direct propane oxidation to COx is more pronounced with O2 than N2O, affecting the overall catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. The lower ability of N2O to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for higher propene selectivity and lower ODP activity. Catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5 show enhanced selectivity with N2O. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, particularly due to the lower reoxidation ability of N2O. Strategies to address these limitations include developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions. N2O's ability to reduce the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can lead to catalyst deactivation is a key advantage. Optimizing catalyst structure and composition, regenerating deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants are potential strategies to enhance stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and lower CO2 yield (Quote 2). Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts selectivity (Quote 3). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, hindering practical N2O-ODHP application. Catalyst deactivation and stability are key issues. Developing stable catalysts, improving selectivity, and optimizing reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility. -Sb2O4 and N2O may play similar roles in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites (Quotes 8, 9, 10, 11).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, cause deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Remarkable propionaldehyde yields (up to 6%) are obtained. TEOM correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant obstacle. Partial activity restoration is achievable through catalyst regeneration with N2O at high temperatures, but full recovery necessitates oxygen. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and devising efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, allowing sites to operate in a reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, optimizing catalyst performance and addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. This enhancement is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to reduced active lattice oxygen and suppressed propene oxidation to COx. Similar effects are observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide catalysts. VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation activity, yet selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage. The presence of V2O5 nanocrystallites triggers propane's total oxidation, a process less severe with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Advanced research is required to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, focusing on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify these species and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP showcases superior performance, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation is pivotal, attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly by coke, rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's deactivation behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. Advanced monitoring techniques like TEOM and GC have been applied to track coking and deactivation, yet they lack insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, essential for understanding ODHP. Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, indicating a research gap. Complementary spectroscopic studies and analysis methods are recommended to evaluate catalyst reversibility and enhance understanding of the ODHP reaction mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as reported by independent research groups. Iron zeolites, particularly when steam-activated, enhance propylene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, as noted in studies. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on iron sources, catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrated process designs could make N2O-ODHP more practical for industrial implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, particularly with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, often due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms for viable N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. It promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that induce ODHP. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating O2 for regeneration. N2O inhibits non-selective sites and synergizes with O2 to modulate catalyst oxidation state during ODHP, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 boost selectivity, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene yield. Reduced surface lattice oxygen concentration aids selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 oxygen atoms. Excess oxygen promotes waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species are proposed for selective oxidation, with polyatomic species linked to COx formation, though direct evidence is lacking. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) using FeZSM-5 catalysts offers high propene yields, up to 25% at 723 K, due to its monooxygen donor specificity and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation is a major challenge, reducing propene yields. Increasing temperatures to 773 K slows deactivation and enhances N2O conversion. Compared to N2O, O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 yields (<5%) and negatively impacts propene selectivity and COx production. Strategies to address deactivation include optimizing reaction conditions, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers superior propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, enhancing yield and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Nickel molybdate catalysts, when used with N2O, improve catalytic performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability challenges hinder practical implementation, necessitating advanced research strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts (Quote 3), with enhanced performance post-calcination (Quote 4). Catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and intricate N2O conversion in propane presence (Quote 6) are major hurdles. Research is needed to clarify deactivation mechanisms (Quote 7) and prevent coke deposition (Quote 8), improving catalyst stability and lifespan for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms O2 in ODHP by enhancing propylene selectivity at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, slightly lowering catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of VOx sites. Propylene selectivity is uniform between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's efficacy is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, as it less effectively re-oxidizes reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show propylene selectivity can triple with N2O, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, enhancing initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene over COx. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain hurdles, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the higher reduction degree of VOx species. N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization influences consecutive propene oxidation. N2O minimizes nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can cause deactivation. Challenges include N2O's lower activity compared to O2. Strategies involve optimizing catalysts for stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Further research aims to understand oxygen species' role in selectivity and develop new catalysts for N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield, as evidenced by a 32% increase in selectivity to propylene with pure NiMoO4. Molybdenum reduction under N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Advanced research on developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for catalytic activity. The TEOM technique reveals faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. FeZSM-5's resistance to deactivation is linked to its porous structure and iron constitution, suggesting strategies to address catalyst deactivation and enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility could focus on optimizing catalyst structure and iron distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly from vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating and full restoration with O2 reoxidation are viable strategies. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, maintaining sites in a reduced state. This curbs non-selective oxygen species and regulates catalyst oxidation. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, optimizing the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based materials, outperforming O2. Slower VOx reoxidation with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, curbing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx agglomerization impacts propene selectivity negatively. N2O better prevents total propane oxidation than O2. Unlike N2O, other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. Research on oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 catalysts is needed, using EPR spectroscopy to identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO. At 10% propane conversion, N2O achieves 80% propene selectivity, significantly higher than O2's 50%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) yields high propylene outputs of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke is a significant issue, causing a rapid decline in propylene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, deactivation rates vary, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating active iron sites' varying sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen (quote [1]). However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke (quote [2]) hinders propylene yield. While TEOM and GC analysis correlate deactivation with coking (quote [3]), surface-level deactivation mechanisms remain elusive. In situ FTIR spectroscopy (quote [7]) is essential for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in the understanding of the ODHP reaction under true process conditions (quote [8]). Selective oxidation studies with N2O over iron zeolites (quote [9]) and catalyst reusability (quote [10]) are critical research gaps. Infrared and TEOMGC results (quote [11]) and catalyst characterization (quote [12]) are pivotal for evaluating reversibility and understanding deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields than traditional oxidants. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 iron zeolites are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions. Further research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP more practical. The role of acidity in deactivation is a critical area requiring further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research aims to improve stability and understand deactivation, targeting stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and deactivation-resistant catalyst engineering.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODP) by promoting a more reduced and selective state in catalytic sites, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and selectivity at 300 ppm N2O (Quote 2). N2O's mechanism involves inhibiting oxygen adsorption, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation (Quote 4), and potentially contributing to ODP through oxygen species from its dissociation (Quote 5). However, pure N2O use is problematic due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity are key findings (Quote 19), highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 boosts selectivity, attributed to N2O's lower reoxidation ability compared to O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene. Atomic oxygen species from N2O promote selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation by providing a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with nickel molybdate catalysts showing enhanced performance at low N2O concentrations. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting N2O concentration can improve catalyst stability and address deactivation. Optimizing N2O concentration and catalyst design is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity compared to dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts, showing enhanced performance post-calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, intensified by propane's reductant effect, complicating N2O conversion. The unclear deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP lacks effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Essential research directions include elucidating deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for high-performance ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces catalytic activity by less effectively re-oxidizing surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit is attributed to lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction. This is particularly evident with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O showing a reduced tendency towards direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation. The degree of reduction of vanadium sites and the nature of oxygen species are key factors in the catalytic performance of vanadium oxides, as demonstrated in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, especially over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is due to the higher reduction degree of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species is significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propylene selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, requiring strategies that focus on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by 8% for a NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixture and by 32% for pure NiMoO4, with a slight decrease in propane conversion. It reduces CO2 yield and promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, which may hinder practical implementation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, focusing on developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding N2O's role in controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, with higher initial propene yields than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise boosts carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating and full restoration by oxygen reoxidation are promising strategies. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to avoid vanadium reduction, and refining regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. This curbs non-selective oxygen species and controls oxidation rates. Dissociated O from N2O oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, tackling catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. The mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation rises with agglomerization, but selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage. Selectivity drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 with O2 and N2O. Prior work with VOx/MCM-41 showed higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%) with N2O at similar propane conversion rates, despite a lower turnover frequency. Further research is needed to understand active oxygen species and enhance catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP achieves high propene yields, comparable to top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen in Fe-zeolites. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest among Fe-zeolites, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, which has sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, impacting propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC are essential for understanding coke deactivation and catalyst evolution under process conditions. Advanced research is required to investigate selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and assess catalyst reusability after regeneration, as current studies have not addressed these aspects in detail.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown superior performance, achieving up to 22% propylene yield (Quote 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge (Quote 6). Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Research directions include exploring alternative iron sources and developing catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation. Steam activation has been shown to reduce deactivation by decreasing the number of Brnsted acid sites (Quote 20), which may catalyze coke formation and accelerate zeolite deactivation (Quote 21). The role of acidity in ODHP requires further investigation, as it may influence both initial performance and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalysts deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, limiting N2O's practicality. Research must focus on stable catalysts, preventing coke formation, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting non-selective sites and promoting a reduced state in catalytic sites, as evidenced by increased yield and selectivity to propylene (Quote 2). At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2 (Quote 5). However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration (Quote 17). The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state, enhancing propylene formation (Quote 19). Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting catalyst reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is boosted by fully covering supports with VOx species and employing N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability improves propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms favor propene production over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Direct experimental evidence is currently lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Increasing temperature reduces deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at higher temperatures. O2 significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity compared to N2O, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction conditions, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing the process's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, boosts propylene selectivity and yield compared to molecular oxygen, reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. At low N2O concentrations, catalytic performance improves, but higher concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and increase carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize catalyst performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, requiring further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are promising catalysts, but deactivation, exacerbated by N2O's complex conversion in the presence of propane, is a hurdle. Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, develop robust catalysts, and refine conditions to curb coke formation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over N2O decomposition. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O instead of O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation. Advanced research should focus on catalyst design and oxygen optimization for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces catalytic activity by less effectively re-oxidizing surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. The positive effect of N2O is attributed to decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O affects selectivity and activity, with N2O yielding better results. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species. N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the nature of oxygen species influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen being nonselective. N2O decomposition yields selective mononuclear oxygen species. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring strategies to maintain high vanadium reduction and prevent nonselective oxygen species. Research should focus on oxygen species formation and developing catalysts with controlled active oxygen species for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, significantly boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by studies showing a 32% increase in selectivity to propylene with a 15% decrease in propane conversion (Quote 6). It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity (Quote 3). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to address these could involve developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions to inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yield. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 shows resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA is higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. FeMFI zeolites face deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. TEOM, with real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction as noted in [3] and [5], is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration through N2O regeneration, as in [8], suggests a research direction for improving catalyst stability and efficiency. Further studies should aim to minimize vanadium reduction and develop more effective regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    