Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption, promoting catalyst reduction, and selectively oxidizing propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration offers a strategy to optimize selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as well as in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high until V2O5 nanocrystallites form, causing a drop in selectivity and direct propane oxidation, less severe with N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, half that with N2O, but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%). Further research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, which could address catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, matches top propene yields from V and Mo-based catalysts, due to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, limits propene yield. FeZSM-5 reveals varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances iron zeolites' performance in ODHP, boosting propane dehydrogenation efficiency (Quote [1]). However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quote [6]). Research gaps include in situ N2O oxidation studies over iron zeolites and detailed catalyst reusability assessments (Quote [9]). Complementary spectroscopic methods and catalyst characterization techniques are recommended to address these limitations, focusing on overcoming catalyst deactivation and enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields than conventional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve notable propylene yields up to 22% at reduced temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation poses a significant challenge to stability and lifetime. Strategies include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrating regeneration steps for practical implementation. The role of acidity in deactivation, as evidenced by the rapid deactivation of iron zeolites with high Brnsted acid sites, requires further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP repurposes a potent greenhouse gas, boosting propylene selectivity over oxygen, especially with iron and redox metal catalysts. However, rapid deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is crucial to enhance catalyst stability and clarify deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, as evidenced by increased yield and selectivity at 300 ppm. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP. However, pure N2O requires O2 for catalyst regeneration to prevent rapid deactivation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state during ODHP, as shown by improved selectivity and yield in propylene production. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene yield. Active sites with 1-2 oxygen atoms favor propene over COx, while sites with >2 oxygen atoms favor waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 affect catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen leading to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels due to its monooxygen donor specificity, achieving high propylene yields. However, rapid catalyst deactivation from coke formation limits its efficiency. Higher temperatures, particularly 773 K, mitigate deactivation by enhancing N2O conversion. Oxygen's presence significantly decreases propylene selectivity and increases COx production. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible active sites. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity at lower concentrations but decreases it at higher levels, forming carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, enhances catalyst stability and performance, addressing critical challenges in the N2O-ODHP process, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing over-oxidation to CO and CO2, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a significant limitation. Addressing deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts are crucial for improving N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and increasing propene yield, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity by preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, crucial for propane and propene activation, is effectively achieved by using N2O, controlling selective oxidation and combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in reduced catalytic activity as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent for both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity for V2O5 nanoparticles. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, attributed to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly advantageous with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, as it reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for the practical implementation of N2O-ODHP, as the oxidizing agent tunes the catalytic performance of vanadium oxides.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, due to its influence on the reduction degree of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O yields lower ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen being nonselective. N2O's reduced ability to reoxidize VOx species benefits by suppressing nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization degree affects consecutive propene oxidation activity. Challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by developing catalysts with controlled active oxygen species density and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to understand oxygen species mechanisms and develop new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity [2,3,7]. Employing catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, N2O's role is to inhibit non-selective sites and control selectivity [8]. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, with catalyst deactivation and stability as critical issues [5,6]. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and mitigate deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which rapidly deactivates due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, reducing carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a key challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, preventing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by regulating oxygen supply and sustaining a reduced catalyst state, as it inhibits O2 adsorption and boosts the catalyst's reduction rate. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over various catalysts, outperforming O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity decreases with agglomerized VOx sites, but N2O lessens this effect. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst demonstrated half the propane conversion rate with N2O compared to O2, yet propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. Further research is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation, which could address catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves high propene yields comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts with O2, due to its ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, limits performance, with varying sensitivity among iron sites in FeZSM-5. Advanced research is needed to address deactivation, involving reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's mono-oxygen donor role in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen ([1]). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield ([2]). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and catalyst regeneration, as in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites are lacking ([6], [9]). Techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor coke formation and surface changes ([7], [8]), but more studies are required to explore the deactivation mechanism and catalyst reusability ([10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites, achieving up to 22% yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam-activated zeolites exhibit slower deactivation rates. Further research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Understanding the role of acidity and iron impurities in ODHP is crucial for improving catalyst performance and practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, effectively utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Replacing oxygen with N2O significantly increases propylene yield, especially with iron-based zeolites. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is vital for enhancing catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, as highlighted in quote 5. Strategies like developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation are promising directions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inducing a more selective catalyst state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, it dissociates to provide less oxidizing oxygen species that promote ODHP. However, pure N2O use is unadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces molybdenum catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. Optimal selectivity is achieved with a combination of O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. This synergy inhibits non-selective sites, explaining the improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials enhances selectivity, further optimized by N2O's reduced reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, while excess oxygen promotes waste products. Atomic oxygen from N2O supports selective oxidation, unlike polyatomic species linked to COx formation, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Research directions focus on optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods to address these limitations, aiming for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, especially at low concentrations, improving yield and selectivity. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate catalyst oxidation state, addressing stability issues. Advanced research is crucial to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over dioxygen, curbing over-oxidation (Q[2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts (Q[3]). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant effect and complex N2O conversion (Q[5], Q[6]), is a critical issue. Advanced research is needed to clarify deactivation mechanisms, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, improving catalyst longevity for practical N2O-ODHP implementation (Q[8]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 by reducing active sites, as its decomposition is less favorable. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but boosts selectivity. Surface VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles show similar propylene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage stems from lowering surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propylene formation over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, due to its lower re-oxidation capacity of VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. Studies [1,3,5] show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, particularly with bulk-like V2O5. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O impacts selectivity and activity [13]. Advanced research is crucial to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, due to its influence on the reduction degree of VOx species. N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing the importance of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, in COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical, requiring strategies to control the surface density of active oxygen species and optimize conditions for selective species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. This is facilitated by the reduction of molybdenum in NiMoO4 catalysts, promoting selectivity. N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, aiding catalyst reduction. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding additives like -Sb2O4 in controlling selectivity. Studies show that N2O increases propylene selectivity while decreasing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, and it promotes the reduction of molybdenum, enhancing catalyst selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, are generated by steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA. Steam activation is critical for high catalytic activities, generating extraframework iron species responsible for propane oxydehydrogenation. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane oxydehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by inhibiting peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise increases carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration techniques to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, offering a controlled oxygen source for propane oxidation. Reduced catalytic sites favor propene production. Research on catalyst stability and deactivation is essential for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, as N2O's action improves selectivity and limits non-selective oxygen species formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation over iron zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. This is also observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage, but V2O5 nanocrystallites lower selectivity and cause propane's total oxidation, lessened by N2O. N2O yields 80% propene selectivity vs. O2's 50% at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower turnover frequency. Further research on oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP achieves high propene yields, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, due to Fe-zeolites' efficiency. Fe-zeolites excel in propene production, leveraging N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, notably in Fe-beta, hinders propene yield, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction and quality decline. Advanced research is vital to overcome these limitations, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by enabling iron zeolites to coordinate reactive oxygen, as per quote [1]. However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, noted in quote [2], limits propylene yield. In situ FTIR spectroscopy, as mentioned in quote [7], is vital for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits, aiding in understanding deactivation. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability, highlighted in quote [10], are lacking, necessitating further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene production at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 achieving up to 22% yield. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a significant challenge affecting stability. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites that catalyze coke formation. Further research is essential to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and explore alternative iron sources to enhance resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's potent greenhouse gas properties in ODHP boost propylene selectivity over oxygen, notably with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is crucial to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating catalyst oxidation states, as evidenced by its ability to increase yield and selectivity to propylene (Quote [2]). At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species (Quote [5]). However, pure N2O causes catalyst deactivation, necessitating O2 for regeneration (Quote [17]). N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the synergy between O2 and N2O modulates catalyst oxidation for improved selectivity (Quote [19]). Advanced research is crucial to overcome catalyst stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 enhances selectivity, while N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene yield. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration aids propane oxidation to propene over COx. Active sites with excess lattice oxygen promote waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen aiding selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields 25% propene at 723 K, outperforming O2's <5% yield. N2O's effectiveness is attributed to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms in the zeolite that coordinate reactive oxygen. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, boosting yield and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2. Optimizing N2O concentration is crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, essential for practical ODHP applications. Research is needed to fine-tune N2O use for enhanced propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to dioxygen, which often leads to over-oxidation. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after severe calcination. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role complicating N2O conversion, is a significant challenge. Research on deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation is crucial for improving catalyst longevity and the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by optimizing active oxygen concentration, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, leading to increased propene selectivity (Quote 2). High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote 3). Using N2O over O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion, essential for practical implementation (Quote 4). Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which curbs direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity as N2O is less efficient in re-oxidizing surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. The positive effect of N2O is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propylene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by minimizing re-oxidation of VOx species and promoting higher catalyst reduction compared to O2, achieving up to three times higher selectivity, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity. N2O's reduced tendency for direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx contributes to improved selectivity. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical for implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, due to a higher degree of VOx species reduction, crucial for high selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity. N2O prevents the formation of nonselective oxygen species that catalyze propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization affects consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, exacerbated by nonselective oxygen species. Strategies include developing catalysts with controlled active oxygen species density and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species. Research should focus on oxygen species formation and new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by a study showing significant increases in selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). Catalysts such as NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity (Quote 3, 7), are employed. However, catalyst deactivation and stability issues hinder practical application. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding how N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity by inhibiting non-selective sites and facilitating molybdenum reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving notable propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are critical for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to mesopores from dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by effectively reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major challenge. Partial regeneration is possible with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity restoration requires O2. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration techniques to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by curtailing O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, which curbs non-selective oxygen species. Oxygen from N2O's dissociation converts propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration optimizes selectivity, tackling catalyst limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, as evidenced by studies. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomeration, but selectivity drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Research indicates non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation, unlike N2O. Limited data exists on oxygen species from O2 and N2O. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41 using EPR spectroscopy. With O2, propane conversion's turnover frequency was 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1, while N2O halved this but doubled propene selectivity to 80% at 10% propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP matches top V and Mo-based catalysts' 24% initial propene yield. Fe-zeolites, notably Fe-beta, Fe-silicalite, and FeZSM-5, excel due to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation, more severe in Fe-beta, limits propene yield. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by acting as a mono-oxygen donor, enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites face deactivation by coke, reducing propylene yield. Advanced research using TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy is essential to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst stability. These techniques monitor coke formation and surface changes, but detailed studies under reaction conditions are lacking. The reusability of regenerated catalysts remains unexplored, highlighting the need for comprehensive investigations to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants (Quote 4). Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated, are efficient catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation (Quote 6) is a major issue. Steam activation slows deactivation (Quote 20), highlighting the role of acidity. Future research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions, and exploring in situ regeneration to address deactivation (Quote 21).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield, particularly with iron-based zeolites. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield, as evidenced by the addition of 300 ppm N2O. It maintains catalytic sites in a reduced state, inhibiting non-selective propane activation and limiting the formation of non-selective oxygen species. At higher concentrations, N2O provides oxygen species for ODHP, less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is crucial for regeneration, as molecular oxygen is necessary to oxidize and regenerate the catalysts in the presence of N2O. Advanced research is needed to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation, focusing on the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen participates in COx formation, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels in propene selectivity, achieving 25% yield at 723 K, due to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with slower deactivation at 773 K linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, and its addition decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying stable catalysts. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially lowering propane conversion but boosting propylene yield. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, optimizes the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability pose significant challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by minimizing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation compared to dioxygen (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote [3]). Catalyst deactivation, a major hurdle, requires advanced research for enhanced stability and lifetime (Quote [5]). Tackling coke deposition and prolonging catalyst lifetime are pivotal for N2O-ODHP's practical application (Quote [8]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation (quotes [1] and [2]). High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (quote [3]). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration using N2O (quote [4]) controls selective oxidation and combustion, making N2O-ODHP promising but requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, inhibiting propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its milder oxidizing strength. This reduces re-oxidation efficiency of surface VOx, impacting catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage lies in lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O significantly decreases direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation. Studies confirm that replacing O2 with N2O increases propene selectivity, with the most significant gains for catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species. The improved ODP performance with N2O is attributed to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, resulting in higher catalyst reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODP reaction. N2O decomposition over reducible metal oxides yields selective mononuclear oxygen species. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that N2O can lead to a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, essential for high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Strategies could involve understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity while reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, as evidenced by studies showing increased propylene selectivity and decreased CO2 yield with N2O addition. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxides play a pivotal role, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on stabilizing catalysts, exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, and optimizing reaction conditions to mitigate deactivation, thereby enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation by coke, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, and the more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant hurdle. Partial activity restoration can be achieved by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring O2. Research should concentrate on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption, promoting catalyst reduction, and selectively oxidizing propane to propylene. Adjusting N2O and promoter concentrations optimizes selectivity, mitigating catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a promising but research-intensive option.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propylene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation. Research on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation of VOx is needed, as demonstrated with VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. EPR spectroscopy can identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation, crucial for improving catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves high propylene yields, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, due to its specificity as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propylene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest among Fe-zeolites. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity. However, coke deposition significantly deactivates catalysts, reducing propylene yield. While TEOM-GC analysis offers insights into deactivation, it lacks detail on surface-level mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability, necessitating further investigation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by decreasing the number of Brnsted acid sites that catalyze coke formation. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced iron sources and incorporation methods, along with catalysts designed to resist deactivation, could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield, especially with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalyst development and understanding deactivation mechanisms for improved N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating catalytic sites, as evidenced by increased yield and selectivity at 300 ppm. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O leads to catalyst deactivation, highlighting the necessity of molecular O2 for regeneration. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity compared to O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration in VOx species favors propene over COx, needing fewer oxygen atoms. Active sites with excess oxygen promote waste products. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen linked to COx formation. The improving effect of N2O on propene selectivity is attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than by O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propene yield, with higher temperatures reducing deactivation rates. O2 significantly lowers C3H6 yields compared to N2O, decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation, aiming to enhance practical implementation by providing a pure N2O source through cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially reducing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity while decreasing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Excessive N2O concentration diminishes selectivity and promotes carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentration can improve catalyst performance, addressing stability and deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation, unlike dioxygen (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts with improved performance (Quote 4). Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicates N2O conversion (Quotes 5, 6). The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is complex (Quote 7), lacking current methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst life (Quote 8). Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize catalyst longevity, improving N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and favoring propene over propane conversion, as per quotes [1] and [2]. Well-dispersed vanadia species, as in quote [3], enhance selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen with N2O, as quote [4] suggests, controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity as N2O is less effective in re-oxidizing surface VOx species. Both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles exhibit consistent propylene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage is attributed to reduced surface lattice oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by up to three times over O2, attributed to its reduced re-oxidation capability of VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction, especially with bulk-like V2O5 species. This results in decreased direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, boosting initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts catalyst selectivity and activity, with N2O demonstrating superior performance. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to O2, as demonstrated with vanadia catalysts on alumina and silica. The lower reactivity of N2O results in a higher reduction degree of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of propene oxidation to CO and CO2. However, N2O leads to lower ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, significantly impacts COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, with research focusing on developing catalysts with controlled active oxygen species density and optimizing conditions for selective oxygen species. Advanced studies are required to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, and to design new catalysts that sustain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by a significant increase while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality, and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding N2O's role in inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction and selectivity. Specifically, N2O's addition leads to a decrease in propane conversion and CO2 yield but increases selectivity to propylene, indicating its effectiveness in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving significant initial propylene yields. Deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, exploring the role of iron species in N2O decomposition, and mitigating coke formation to improve practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits, is a significant issue. Partial activity can be restored by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring oxygen. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by controlling the oxidation state, limiting non-selective oxygen species, and directly converting propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, as seen in n-butane dehydrogenation. Its mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene to COx conversion. VOx agglomerization increases consecutive propene oxidation, affecting selectivity. Studies suggest N2O produces fewer COx-forming species than O2, highlighting the need for further research. Prior VOx/MCM-41 studies in ODHP show N2O halves propane conversion turnover frequency while doubling propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species from N2O and O2, exploring their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation, which is crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves high propene yields, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is due to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation, especially in Fe-beta, reduces propene yield. FeZSM-5 shows varying sensitivity to coke, indicating complex deactivation involving active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility. Advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by acting as a mono-oxygen donor, coordinating reactive oxygen species, as exemplified in iron zeolites. However, catalyst deactivation from coke buildup limits propylene yield. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is crucial for understanding coke formation and surface acidity changes in zeolite catalysts during hydrocarbon conversion. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are needed, as the reversibility of catalyst performance on successive reaction and regeneration cycles remains unaddressed. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene production at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as evidenced by recent studies. Iron zeolites, notably steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant issue. Strategies to mitigate this include optimizing reaction conditions and developing more stable catalyst formulations. Research suggests that steaming improves the catalytic performance of iron zeolites, reducing deactivation rates and the number of Brnsted acid sites, which are linked to coke formation. Further investigation into the role of acidity and catalyst regeneration techniques is essential for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and utilizes a potent greenhouse gas, offering environmental benefits. Iron-based and redox metal catalysts, like vanadium and molybdenum, enhance propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Advanced research is vital to improve stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more feasible.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODP) by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, promoting selectivity. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that induce ODP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable for ODP as it necessitates molecular oxygen to regenerate the catalysts, averting rapid deactivation. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O contribute to improved selectivity in ODP, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Its lower reoxidation ability increases catalyst reduction, spatially separating active lattice oxygen, crucial for selective propane oxidation. Propylene selectivity improves on V/g-Al2O3 with well-dispersed VOx species, and N2O's oxidant role can be tuned for selectivity enhancement. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen species favor propene over COx. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 catalysts demonstrates superior propene selectivity, achieving yields up to 25% at 723 K. This is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, such as 773 K, mitigate deactivation, with slower rates and higher N2O conversion. Oxygen (O2) as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O, and small additions decrease propene selectivity and increase COx, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming to enhance practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, optimizing propane conversion and propylene yield. It reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, improves catalytic performance by controlling the oxidation state of oxide catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges requiring advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity vs. dioxygen, reducing CO/CO2 byproducts. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts, especially post-calcination, are effective but face deactivation challenges, influenced by propane's reductant role. Unclear deactivation mechanisms and coke deposition limit catalyst lifespan. Research should focus on elucidating deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and extend catalyst longevity, advancing N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and increasing propene yield, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity and curbing direct propane and propylene oxidation to COx due to its gentler oxidizing nature. This reduces surface VOx re-oxidation, impacting activity. Propylene selectivity is uniform with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when N2O is the oxidant, unlike with O2. N2O's efficacy stems from lowering surface lattice oxygen density, favoring propylene over combustion. Advanced research is pivotal to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, attributed to its reduced re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion to COx and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O plays a crucial role in selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation. Strategies should focus on optimizing catalyst properties and understanding the role of oxygen species in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts by influencing the reduction degree of VOx species, as shown in studies with alumina- and silica-supported catalysts. Its lower reoxidation ability results in a higher degree of reduction, suppressing nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which enhances selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 demonstrate that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. N2O mitigates catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective oxygen species. However, N2O's lower activity compared to O2 is a limitation. Strategies to address these include optimizing catalyst structure, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity, mirroring -Sb2O4's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, impacting practicality. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and exploring new catalysts for higher activity and selectivity. Synergistic effects in mixed catalysts suggest potential for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The resistance to deactivation in FeZSM-5 may be linked to its porous structure and iron constitution. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen, which can partially regenerate the catalyst surface by reacting with coke, forming COx. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by uniquely reoxidizing vanadium without forming peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is possible through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalytic state, yielding O to selectively oxidize propane to propene. Adjusting promoter and N2O concentrations can mitigate catalyst deactivation and stability issues, advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. However, VOx sites' increased activity for propene oxidation with higher agglomerization poses a challenge. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, but N2O mitigates this effect. Research suggests N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation, highlighting the need for advanced studies to identify oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41, crucial for enhancing selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in propane ODHP, matches propylene yields achieved with V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, thanks to Fe-zeolites' superior performance. N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation are key advantages. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta zeolites, poses a significant challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, highlighting the need for advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by enabling iron zeolites to coordinate reactive oxygen, as noted in quote [1]. However, coke formation, as mentioned in quote [2], rapidly deactivates these catalysts, impacting propylene yield. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst regeneration and reusability. In situ FTIR spectroscopy and TEOM-GC techniques can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding ODHP. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, highlighting the need for further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to O2 (Quote 4). Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield (Quote 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Strategies to address this include optimizing iron incorporation methods and enhancing catalyst stability. Further research on the role of acidity and alternative iron sources could make N2O-ODHP more practical (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, particularly with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hinders its practicality. Research is essential for improving stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's oxidation state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O's dissociation provides less oxidative oxygen species, contributing to ODHP. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's effectiveness in improving selectivity is linked to its ability to modulate the catalyst's state, especially in the presence of O2. Advanced research is imperative to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical use, focusing on enhancing catalyst stability and addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and adjustable using N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity by reducing active sites' oxygen, favoring propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen aiding selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen promoting COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 excels due to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species, achieving high propylene yields. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation, reducing propylene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propylene compared to N2O, and small O2 additions decrease propylene selectivity and increase COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming to enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, affecting propane conversion and propylene yield. Optimal N2O concentration enhances catalyst stability and performance, while higher levels decrease selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Advanced research is crucial to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation to CO and CO2, a common issue with dioxygen [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are promising catalysts [3], yet face challenges with complex N2O conversion and unclear deactivation mechanisms [5][7]. Advanced research is imperative to elucidate deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, thereby enhancing catalyst lifetime and making N2O-ODHP a more practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and favoring propene over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity further. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms O2 in ODHP by boosting propylene selectivity at comparable propane conversion rates. Its milder oxidizing strength hinders direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, slightly reducing catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when N2O is used, unlike O2's selectivity issues with V2O5. N2O's edge stems from lowering the surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, by limiting re-oxidation of reduced VOx species, as studies with VOx/g-Al2O3 and VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show. This results in higher catalyst reduction, crucial for improved initial propene selectivity. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, significantly enhancing propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, favoring propene formation with N2O. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high selectivity. However, N2O's lower reoxidation ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. N2O prevents the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which catalyze consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, requiring controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimized conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Research should focus on oxygen species mechanisms and developing catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by studies (Quotes 2, 5, 6) showing enhanced selectivity upon N2O addition, while slightly reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide are pivotal, with N2O facilitating molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity (Quotes 7, 10). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Future research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its iron constitution and porous structure, which may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, providing insights into deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by effectively reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion [1,2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction [3,5], is a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achieved by regenerating the catalyst under N2O at high temperatures, with full restoration requiring oxygen [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, operating in a more reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration offers a strategy to modulate selectivity, advancing practical implementation. Catalysts work more efficiently in a reduced state, and N2O's oxygen selectively oxidizes propane, improving selectivity. Adjusting promoter concentration could optimize selectivity during catalytic reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, with N2O mitigating this effect. Non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. N2O halves propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2. Further research is needed to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves 24% initial propene yield at high temperatures, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' success is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta, significantly reduces propene yield. FeZSM-5's deactivation suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can be caused by reduced active sites, decreased site quality, or decreased pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor, facilitated by iron species, boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation from coke formation, affecting propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM and GC analysis offer insights into deactivation, but lack surface-level detail. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation and regeneration. Despite these tools, detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, highlighting the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 (quote [4]). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation (quote [6]) is a significant challenge. Steam activation improves catalyst stability by reducing Brnsted acid sites (quote [20]), which are linked to coke formation. Strategies to address deactivation include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and employing in situ regeneration. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrate regeneration steps.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, particularly with iron and vanadium catalysts, while addressing environmental concerns. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits its practicality. Advanced research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and clarify deactivation mechanisms, potentially optimizing N2O-ODHP for real-world use.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, increasing yield while reducing propane and O2 conversion. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still promote ODHP. Its presence shifts catalysts to a more selective, reduced state. However, pure N2O causes catalyst deactivation; O2 is crucial for regeneration. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced by fully covering the support with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species supports selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species from N2O favor selective oxidation, while polyatomic species from O2 participate in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits performance, with higher temperatures reducing deactivation rates. O2 yields significantly lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O, and its addition decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic efficiency, reducing oxygen use and CO2 emissions. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, but adjusting N2O concentration can improve performance. Advanced research is essential to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity versus dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicates N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism and coke deposition remain challenges, limiting catalyst lifetime. Advanced research is crucial to overcome these limitations and improve N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active sites and favoring propene formation, as replacing O2 with N2O reduces overall activity but increases selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity, and optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for high-performance ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This results in reduced catalytic activity as N2O less effectively re-oxidizes surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent across VOx species with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's advantage stems from lowering surface lattice oxygen density in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times compared to O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in decreased direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts selectivity and activity. Advanced research is imperative to tackle catalyst stability and deactivation issues for practical implementation. Studies confirm that replacing O2 with N2O increases propene selectivity, especially for samples with bulk-like V2O5 species, due to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, which increases the degree of catalyst reduction. Direct propane oxidation to COx is more pronounced with O2 than N2O, affecting overall catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, as shown over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species, which enhances propene selectivity but reduces ODP activity. Catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5 exhibit improved selectivity with N2O. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges, partly due to N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Strategies to address these include developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is crucial to understand oxygen species mechanisms and develop new catalysts that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP. N2O's advantage lies in reducing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can lead to deactivation. Optimizing catalyst structure, regenerating deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants are potential solutions to enhance stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion and lower CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, affecting practical N2O-ODHP application. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Developing stable catalysts, improving selectivity, and optimizing reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility. -Sb2O4 and N2O may play similar roles in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, suggesting potential synergies in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O efficiently oxidizes propane over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation via coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, despite lower propane conversion. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through catalyst regeneration with N2O at high temperatures, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and devising efficient regeneration techniques, as indicated by successful partial restoration of catalyst activity through N2O treatment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, enabling sites to operate in a reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, optimizing catalyst performance and mitigating deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to reduced active lattice oxygen and suppressed propene oxidation to COx. Similar effects are observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide catalysts. VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation activity, yet selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage. The presence of V2O5 nanocrystallites triggers propane's total oxidation, a process less severe with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Advanced research is required to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, focusing on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify these species and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP yields 24% initial propene, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, thanks to Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species, facilitated by N2O's monooxygen donation. However, catalyst deactivation, notably by coke, rapidly diminishes propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's deactivation behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke, indicating complex deactivation processes involving reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's mono-oxygen donor role in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote 1). However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield (Quote 2). Advanced monitoring techniques like TEOM and GC track coking and deactivation, yet lack insights into surface-level mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP (Quote 6). Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, indicating a research gap (Quote 8). Complementary spectroscopic studies and analysis methods are recommended to evaluate catalyst reversibility and enhance understanding of the ODHP reaction mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as reported by independent research groups [4]. Iron zeolites, particularly when steam-activated, enhance propylene selectivity [8]. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge [6]. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on iron sources, catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrated process designs could make N2O-ODHP more practical for industrial implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, effectively utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen, especially with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts, enhances propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, often due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires developing stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms for viable N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield, as per quote 2. It promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity (quote 3). At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that induce ODHP (quote 5). However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating O2 for regeneration (quote 17). N2O inhibits non-selective sites and synergizes with O2 to modulate catalyst oxidation state during ODHP, enhancing selectivity (quote 19).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 enhance selectivity, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene yield. Reduced surface lattice oxygen concentration aids selective propane oxidation to propene, needing only 1-2 oxygen atoms, while excess oxygen promotes waste product formation. Atomic oxygen species are proposed for selective oxidation, with polyatomic species linked to COx formation, though direct evidence is lacking. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) with FeZSM-5 catalysts achieves high propene yields, up to 25% at 723 K, due to its monooxygen donor specificity and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation significantly reduces propene yields. Increasing temperatures to 773 K slows deactivation and enhances N2O conversion. Compared to N2O, O2 yields much lower C3H6 yields (<5%) and negatively impacts propene selectivity and COx production. Strategies to address deactivation include optimizing reaction conditions, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation, aiming to make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, enhancing yield and reducing CO2. Nickel molybdate catalysts with N2O improve performance. However, catalyst deactivation and stability issues limit practical use, requiring advanced research for viable implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts with improved performance after calcination. Major challenges include catalyst deactivation and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane. Research is needed to elucidate deactivation mechanisms and prevent coke deposition, crucial for enhancing catalyst stability and lifespan in practical N2O-ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation, as per quote [1]. Well-dispersed vanadia species, as mentioned in quote [3], enhance selectivity by preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O, as in quote [4], controls selective oxidation and combustion, vital for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, outperforming O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential limits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, slightly reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of VOx sites. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's effectiveness is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, as it less effectively re-oxidizes reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies demonstrate that propylene selectivity can triple with N2O, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, enhancing initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene over COx. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts due to the higher reduction degree of VOx species, as evidenced by studies on VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48. N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx, as it does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze this reaction. Catalysts' stability and deactivation remain challenges, with N2O's lower activity compared to O2 being a limitation. Strategies to address these include optimizing catalysts for stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Further research aims to understand the role of oxygen species in selectivity and develop new catalysts for N2O-ODHP, focusing on the complex reaction scheme involving parallel and consecutive steps for ODP with O2 and N2O.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, as seen with a 32% increase in selectivity using pure NiMoO4, while reducing propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction under N2O boosts catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which hinder practical application. Advanced research on stable catalysts and optimized reaction conditions could improve N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for catalytic activity. The TEOM technique reveals faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. FeZSM-5's resistance to deactivation is linked to its porous structure and iron constitution, suggesting strategies to address catalyst deactivation and enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility could focus on optimizing catalyst structure and iron distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant issue. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration through O2 reoxidation are promising strategies. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and enhancing regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by curbing O2 adsorption and sustaining catalysts in a reduced state, inhibiting non-selective oxygen species and regulating oxidation. Adjusting N2O concentration optimizes selectivity, a strategy to overcome catalyst deactivation and stability issues, essential for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based materials, outperforming O2. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species decreases active lattice oxygen, reducing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx agglomerization negatively impacts propene selectivity. N2O better prevents total propane oxidation than O2. Unlike N2O, other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. Research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, using EPR spectroscopy to identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO. At 10% propane conversion, N2O achieves 80% propene selectivity, significantly higher than O2's 50%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP, using Fe-zeolites, achieves high propylene yields (24%) akin to top V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is linked to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke, causing a rapid drop in propylene yield, is a significant issue. Among Fe-zeolites, deactivation rates vary, with Fe-beta being most susceptible, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating differing iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore space accessibility, necessitating advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency (quote [1]), but iron zeolites' deactivation by coke (quote [2]) limits propylene yield. In situ FTIR spectroscopy (quote [7]) is crucial for monitoring carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding the ODHP reaction under true process conditions (quote [8]). Research gaps include selective oxidation studies with N2O over iron zeolites (quote [9]) and catalyst reusability (quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields, notably up to 22% with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 iron zeolites. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions. Further research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP more practical. The role of acidity in deactivation is a critical area requiring further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield, notably with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Research aims to improve stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, targeting stable catalysts and conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODP) by promoting a more selective catalytic state, as evidenced by increased propylene yield at 300 ppm N2O. Its mechanism involves inhibiting oxygen adsorption and potentially contributing to ODP through oxygen species from its dissociation. However, pure N2O use is problematic due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity are key findings, highlighting the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 enhances selectivity, attributed to N2O's lower reoxidation ability compared to O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene. Atomic oxygen species from N2O promote selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, illustrating N2O's role in improving propylene yield and the need for advanced research to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over O2, with nickel molybdate catalysts showing improved performance at lower N2O concentrations. Higher N2O levels reduce selectivity and increase carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can improve catalyst stability and mitigate deactivation. Optimizing N2O concentration and catalyst design is critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, requiring advanced research to address limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which over-oxidizes to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, with superior performance post-calcination. Catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant effect, complicates N2O conversion. Unclear deactivation mechanisms in N2O-ODHP lack strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research should focus on elucidating deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke for practical N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation. Well-dispersed vanadia species enhance selectivity, preventing non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for high-performance ODHP, as evidenced by its ability to increase propene selectivity while decreasing propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its milder oxidizing strength. This reduces re-oxidation efficiency of surface VOx, impacting catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's advantage stems from lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities. Advanced research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than with O2. This is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction, particularly evident with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O significantly curtails direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O showing a reduced tendency towards direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation. The degree of reduction of vanadium sites and the nature of oxygen species are pivotal in the catalytic performance of vanadium oxides.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than O2, especially over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is due to the higher reduction degree of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species is significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propylene selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, requiring strategies that focus on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by 8% for a NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixture and by 32% for pure NiMoO4, with a slight decrease in propane conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, which may hinder practical implementation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, focusing on developing stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. N2O's role in controlling selectivity requires further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O efficiently oxidizes propane to propylene over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation via coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, and shows higher initial propene yields than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA. Steam activation is critical for high catalytic activities, and FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by inhibiting peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise increases carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a significant issue. Partial regeneration through N2O heating and full restoration by oxygen reoxidation are promising. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. This inhibits non-selective oxygen species and regulates oxidation rates. Dissociated O from N2O directly oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration and promoter levels can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation, advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, outperforming O2. The mechanism involves slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, but selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage. Selectivity drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Prior work with VOx/MCM-41 showed higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%) with N2O at similar propane conversion rates, despite a lower turnover frequency. Further research is needed to understand active oxygen species and enhance catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs, akin to top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen in Fe-zeolites. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly rapid in Fe-beta, reduces propene yield, with varying sensitivity in FeZSM-5. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, site quality, and pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, as per Quote 1. However, coke formation, as mentioned in Quote 2, rapidly deactivates the catalyst, impacting propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC, highlighted in Quotes 7 and 8, are crucial for understanding coke deactivation and catalyst evolution under process conditions. Advanced research, as suggested in Quote 9, is required to investigate selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and assess catalyst reusability after regeneration, as current studies, as per Quote 10, have not addressed these aspects in detail. This research could potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields higher propylene production at lower temperatures compared to conventional oxidants (Quote 4). Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 iron zeolites achieve up to 22% propylene yield (Quote 7), showcasing superior performance. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant hurdle (Quote 6). Strategies to mitigate this include optimizing catalysts and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Steam activation reduces deactivation by lowering the number of Brnsted acid sites, which can catalyze coke formation (Quote 20). Further research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, develop more resistant catalysts, and understand the role of acidity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield, notably with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalysts deactivate rapidly due to coke formation, limiting N2O's practicality. Research must focus on stable catalysts, preventing coke formation, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting non-selective sites and promoting a reduced state in catalytic sites, as evidenced by increased yield and selectivity to propylene. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state, enhancing propylene formation. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is enhanced by VOx species coverage and N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms prefer propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen aiding selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen linked to COx formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, attributed to its monooxygen donor property and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Increasing temperature reduces deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at higher temperatures. O2 significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity compared to N2O, negatively impacting propene production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction conditions, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing the process's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity and yield over molecular oxygen, reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Optimal performance is achieved at low N2O concentrations, as higher levels decrease selectivity and increase carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentration optimizes catalyst performance. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity vs. dioxygen, curbing over-oxidation to CO/CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, yet deactivation, exacerbated by N2O's complex conversion in propane presence, is a major obstacle. Research is essential to clarify deactivation mechanisms, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, improving N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by favoring propene formation over N2O decomposition, as active site concentration decreases. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for high selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O instead of O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion, tackling catalyst stability and deactivation issues. Advanced research should concentrate on catalyst design and oxygen optimization for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane and subsequent propene oxidation to COx due to its milder oxidizing strength. This slightly hampers catalytic activity by less efficiently re-oxidizing surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is uniform between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. The beneficial effect of N2O stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propylene formation over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity up to three times over O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity, with N2O yielding superior results. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical challenges, highlighting the need for advanced research to make N2O-ODHP a viable practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species. N2O's lower reoxidation ability reduces ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the nature of oxygen species influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen being nonselective. N2O decomposition yields selective mononuclear oxygen species. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring strategies to maintain high vanadium reduction and prevent nonselective oxygen species. Research should focus on oxygen species formation and developing catalysts with controlled active oxygen species for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP significantly enhances propylene selectivity, with a 32% increase noted while reducing propane conversion (Quote 6). It promotes molybdenum reduction, improving catalyst selectivity (Quote 3). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Research strategies could focus on developing more stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yield. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, and initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA is higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. FeMFI zeolites face deactivation by coke, reducing propene yield. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by effectively reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction as noted in [3] and [5], poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration through N2O regeneration, as in [8], indicates a promising research direction for enhancing catalyst stability and efficiency. Further studies should focus on minimizing vanadium reduction and developing more effective regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    