Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation directly oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, observed over various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Experimental evidence aims to identify oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41. A previous study showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, compared to half with N2O, but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identified oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41, exploring their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is due to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances iron zeolites' performance in ODHP, efficiently dehydrogenating propane [1]. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation significantly reduces propylene yield [2]. While TEOM and GC analysis correlate deactivation with coking, in situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy are needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and carbonaceous deposit formation on zeolite catalysts. Detailed in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking, as is research on catalyst reusability after regeneration [10].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve notable propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits stability. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on iron sources, deactivation-resistant catalysts, and integrated process designs could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP a practical reality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O promotes a more selective reaction by maintaining catalytic sites in a reduced state. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that can induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved on V/g-Al2O3 by well-dispersed VOx species and further tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propene over COx formation, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen for selective propane oxidation. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen favor waste products. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen involved in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its performance is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major drawback, leading to decreased propene yields. Increasing temperature reduces deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, associated with higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant results in very low C3H6 yields compared to N2O. Small amounts of O2 decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research could focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalyst systems for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts, when doped with N2O, exhibit improved catalytic performance, with increased propylene yield and selectivity at low N2O concentrations. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, could modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing their performance and addressing challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a major issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, and coke deposition remains a challenge. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support achieve high propene selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O instead of O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion, critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species. Both highly dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show similar propylene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2 where V2O5 lacks selectivity. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O leading to less CO and CO2 formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a higher reduction degree, essential for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The primary C3H6 selectivity is higher with N2O over a broad range of propane conversions, and the ability for consecutive C3H6 oxidation to COx is reduced. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity (Quote 3, 7). N2O and -Sb2O4 both control selectivity, inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 8, 9). N2O's mechanism may involve oxygen adsorption inhibition, promoting molybdenum reduction (Quote 10). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which require strategies like developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, influence deactivation behavior. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity, attributed to its unique reoxidation mechanism that avoids peroxovanadate formation, leading to lower carbon oxide selectivity. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction, as it provides a controlled source of oxygen for propane oxidation. In a reduced state, catalytic sites favor propylene production. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage, but drops significantly with V2O5 nanocrystallites. N2O mitigates the detrimental effect of total propane oxidation. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 is sought to understand their nature and structure. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, while N2O achieved half the conversion rate but 80% propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion, compared to 50% with O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identified oxygen species from N2O and O2 and explored their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites at temperatures around 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' success hinges on N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex issue, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility loss.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation by coke (Quote 2) limits propylene yield, highlighting the need for in situ studies to understand deactivation mechanisms (Quote 9). Advanced research is essential to overcome limitations, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields up to 22%. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and exploring alternative iron sources. Advanced catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation and integrated process designs incorporating regeneration steps could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) by reducing catalytic sites, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species that induce ODP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation; molecular oxygen is necessary for regeneration. N2O's role is to inhibit non-selective sites, and the presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering supports with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Research suggests atomic oxygen species promote selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, though direct evidence is lacking. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, leading to decreased propene yields. Higher temperatures, such as 773 K, slow down the deactivation rate, correlating with higher N2O conversion. Compared to O2, N2O yields significantly higher C3H6, with O2 addition reducing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion and oxygen consumption, while increasing propylene yield and selectivity. However, at higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, could improve catalyst stability and performance, addressing critical challenges in the N2O-ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, unlike dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane, forming CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, offering superior performance. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, is a major hurdle. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing catalyst lifetime for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, making it a promising strategy for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering higher propene selectivity than O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing surface density of active oxygen in VOx species. This selectivity is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike with O2. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene formation over combustion. However, N2O's weaker re-oxidation ability lowers catalytic activity compared to O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by minimizing the re-oxidation of reduced VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity compared to O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering distinct advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, leading to a higher reduction state. This effect is more pronounced for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. However, N2O's lower activity for reoxidation of reduced VOx species compared to O2 is responsible for the lower ODHP activity with N2O. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts employed in ODHP, such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48, have been characterized using various techniques. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, especially in maintaining high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions. Strategies to address these limitations could involve developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that can maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced catalyst selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, with catalyst deactivation and stability as critical issues. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction, as suggested by the role of N2O and -Sb2O4 in controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 shows resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Remarkable propionaldehyde yields (up to 6%) are obtained. TEOM, a microbalance technique, correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with O2 are strategies. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, as it creates a more reduced state for catalytic sites. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, as observed with various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials (Quote 1). A similar effect is noted in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide (Quote 2). The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O compared to O2 leads to lower active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (Quote 3). Challenges include VOx agglomerization affecting propene selectivity and direct propane oxidation, less pronounced with N2O. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species that contribute to COx formation than O2. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation is limited, necessitating further research on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and explore their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields akin to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, as demonstrated by Fe-zeolites. N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species in zeolites are key to this efficiency. However, coke-induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta being the most susceptible. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests active sites with differential sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to mitigate deactivation and enhance catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms and coke formation. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, highlighting the need for advanced research to address these limitations and improve N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to O2. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions. Research is needed to understand the role of acidity and improve catalyst stability, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites like Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, making N2O-ODHP a promising but challenging option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODP) by reducing catalytic sites, inhibiting non-selective propane activation, and modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to ODP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating molecular oxygen for catalyst regeneration. Research is needed to optimize N2O concentration and catalyst design for practical ODP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and by employing N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, requiring fewer lattice oxygen species. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, optimizing N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production, and deteriorates performance. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify catalysts less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts' performance is enhanced by N2O, increasing propylene yield and selectivity at low N2O concentrations. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which could be addressed by adjusting N2O concentration to modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation issues. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, but deactivation remains a challenge. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke and extend catalyst life, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding propene's strong adsorption. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achievable with N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering superior propylene selectivity over O2 at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, reducing surface density of active oxygen in VOx species. This selectivity is consistent across different VOx catalyst forms. However, N2O's lower re-oxidation capacity decreases catalytic activity. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor selective propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, up to three times compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene formation over COx. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for lower ODP activity but also for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species is also significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The primary C3H6 selectivity and the catalyst ability for consecutive C3H6 oxidation to COx are critical parameters for designing selective catalysts. Research directions include understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species to maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research directions should focus on improving catalyst stability and reducing deactivation, potentially through new catalyst development or optimizing reaction conditions. Evidence suggests N2O and -Sb2O4 play similar roles in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities. Remarkable yields of propionaldehyde are obtained. TEOM analysis correlates activity and deactivation, revealing faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity, attributed to its unique reoxidation mechanism that avoids peroxovanadate formation, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full recovery needing O2. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, allowing catalytic sites to work in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene to COx conversion. However, VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation, and high vanadium concentrations lead to propane total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Further research is needed to understand oxygen species from O2 and N2O, as non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top-performing V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation poses a significant challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter suggesting varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, a key advantage in ODHP. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke significantly reduces propylene yield. In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are essential for studying coke formation and deactivation, but detailed mechanisms remain unexplored. Research is needed on catalyst regeneration and reusability, as current studies lack comprehensive insights into these areas, particularly for iron-containing zeolites in N2O-ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites as catalysts. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve up to 22% propylene yield, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with steam-activated zeolites showing slower deactivation rates. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and integrate catalyst regeneration for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to reduce coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalytic sites, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable for ODHP as it requires O2 for catalyst regeneration to prevent rapid deactivation. N2O reduces catalysts, causing high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state during ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species are responsible for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation and reduced propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, as observed in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination ([3], [4]). However, catalyst deactivation ([5]) and complex nitrous oxide conversion in the presence of propane ([6]) are significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is not fully understood ([7]), and there's a lack of methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime ([8]). Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke formation is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving higher propene selectivity than O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing propene selectivity. N2O's lower catalytic activity, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize surface VOx species, is offset by its selectivity benefits. Both highly dispersed surface VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show similar propene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2 where selectivity is compromised. The positive effect of N2O stems from its role in reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and improved selectivity. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. N2O's advantage lies in its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is essential for high primary propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. The higher polymerized VOx species have a higher activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The importance of direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx is significantly higher in the presence of O2 than in N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Catalysts like NiMoO4, -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed. N2O's addition enhances propylene selectivity, reduces propane and oxygen conversion, and decreases CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial. Strategies like developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity can enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility. For instance, N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests potential synergies in mixed catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, and the nature of extraframework iron species influences deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which propels carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works by dissociating to produce oxygen that selectively oxidizes propane to propylene. In a more reduced state, catalytic sites limit non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with increased agglomerization degree, leading to lower propene selectivity and direct propane oxidation. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, aiming to improve catalyst performance and make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation mechanisms suggest varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, a key advantage in ODHP. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke significantly reduces propylene yield. While TEOM-GC analysis offers insights into coking and deactivation, it lacks surface-level mechanism details. In situ FTIR spectroscopy could monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, highlighting a research gap. Complementary spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions are needed to better understand the deactivation and regeneration processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, show remarkable propylene yields at 643-773 K. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and in situ regeneration techniques. Research directions include exploring alternative iron sources, designing deactivation-resistant catalysts, and integrating regeneration steps for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen significantly increases propylene yield across catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based materials, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalyst formulations, optimized reaction conditions, and understanding deactivation mechanisms, making N2O-ODHP a promising but challenging option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by working in a more reduced state, inhibiting non-selective sites and limiting the formation of CO2. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable for ODHP as it requires molecular oxygen to regenerate the catalysts, preventing quick deactivation. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, explaining improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 materials with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O. O2 addition to the C3H8+N2O mixture decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts, when doped with N2O, show improved catalytic performance: propane conversion decreases, propylene yield and selectivity increase, and oxygen consumption and CO2 yield reduce at low N2O concentrations. Higher N2O levels decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving their performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a major issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst life. Research into deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing selectivity (Quote 1, 2). High propylene selectivity is achieved by fully covering the support with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote 3). Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, which participates in propane and propene activation, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, achievable by using N2O over O2 (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity with nanoparticles. N2O's benefit stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in a higher reduction degree of VOx species, which is essential for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the specific surface area decreases with vanadium loading, and the degree of polymerization of VOx species is influenced by the support material. The VOx(2.7)/MCM-41 catalyst exhibits slightly higher catalytic activity than VOx(2.8)/SiO2 and VOx(3.4)/MCM-48, possibly due to a lower degree of polymerization of VOx species. The lowest activity was observed over the VOx(11.2)/MCM-41 sample, which possesses microcrystalline V2O5. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, with strategies focusing on optimizing catalyst structure and composition to enhance stability and selectivity, developing methods to regenerate deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants that can provide high selectivity and activity while maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide are employed. N2O significantly increases propylene selectivity while decreasing propane conversion and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical application. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical. Strategies like using more stable catalysts, developing new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, and optimizing reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility. For instance, N2O's role in reducing molybdenum and its impact on selectivity, as observed with NiMoO4, suggests potential for selectivity control.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. The initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA is higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, as it reoxidizes vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, favoring propene over carbon oxides. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a key challenge. Partial regeneration is possible by heating under N2O, but full activity requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction, likely due to its ability to produce O for propane oxidation to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. This strategy could make N2O-ODHP more practical, leveraging the oxidant's unique properties to control catalyst oxidation state and limit non-selective oxygen species formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's consecutive oxidation to COx. The selectivity is maintained as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges. Research suggests that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Further studies are needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, particularly on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, to improve N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving high initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a critical challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation is multifaceted, involving active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. TEOM and GC analysis correlate deactivation with coking, but lack surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed to monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in real time, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include in situ studies of N2O over iron zeolites and detailed analysis of catalyst reusability, necessitating advanced investigation methods like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption for comprehensive catalyst characterization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to overcome this include optimizing iron incorporation methods, enhancing catalyst stability, and developing in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to design catalysts with improved resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts like Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke, and understand deactivation mechanisms, making N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O on catalyst oxidation state during ODHP highlight its potential for improving selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species, further enhanced by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. This effect is due to N2O's less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2, decreasing active surface lattice oxygen and favoring propene over COx. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Direct evidence is lacking, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. This is due to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, and its addition decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production, deteriorating FeZSM-5's performance. Strategies include optimizing temperature to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O to nickel molybdate catalysts modifies catalytic performance: it decreases propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, with superior performance after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for propane and propene activation, is achieved by using N2O over O2, controlling selective oxidation and combustion. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor selective propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by minimizing the re-oxidation of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction compared to O2. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from N2O and O2 influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research to optimize catalysts for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. The lower ODP activity with N2O is attributed to its reduced ability to reoxidize VOx species, which is essential for achieving high propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODP reaction over certain catalysts. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies such as the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. The use of N2O can mitigate catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these challenges include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing methods to regenerate deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity, evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction under N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, and catalyst deactivation. Research directions should focus on stabilizing catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. The TEOM technique, offering real-time monitoring of mass changes, correlates activity with deactivation. Steam activation is critical for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and reducing deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which propels carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a hurdle. Partial catalyst regeneration via N2O heating aids activity, but full restoration needs oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, conditions minimizing vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction rates, as it creates a more reduced state for catalytic sites. The oxygen from N2O dissociation directly oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with increased agglomerization of VOx sites. Propene selectivity drops significantly when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate. Research suggests that N2O forms fewer reactive oxygen species than O2, which may explain its advantage. Experimental evidence is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O. A study using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts showed higher propene selectivity with N2O (80%) versus O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower turnover frequency. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions could identify oxygen species and explore their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' performance hinges on N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a major hurdle, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, deactivation rates vary, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests sites with varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a complex issue, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility loss.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP (Quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation by coke rapidly decreases propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability, focusing on in situ investigations and regeneration studies not yet addressed in detail.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in this process, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and integrated process designs that include catalyst regeneration, making N2O-ODHP a more practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across various catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Fe-ZSM-5 stands out for high C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust catalyst design, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O modifies catalytic performance in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At >300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species play a role, indicating its ability to induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O isn't advisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering supports with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, as it reduces the steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen necessary for selective propane oxidation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. Further research is needed to confirm the role of oxygen species in selectivity and to address catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite that coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 as an oxidant yields much lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. O2 addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O to nickel molybdate catalysts decreases propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low N2O concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductant role and the complex N2O conversion ([5], [6]). The deactivation mechanism is not fully understood ([7]), and there's a lack of methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime ([8]). Research should focus on elucidating deactivation mechanisms, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize catalyst longevity, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by decreasing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding propene's strong adsorption. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, essential for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propylene selectivity across different VOx species. The positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O reducing non-selective reaction pathways. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O leads to lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects consecutive propene oxidation. The critical challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion decrease and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and optimize reaction conditions could improve N2O-ODHP's practicality. For instance, developing more stable catalysts or refining reaction parameters could mitigate deactivation. The role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites is noteworthy, suggesting synergistic effects in mixed catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing insights into coking. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, with mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. This slower reoxidation enhances propene yield. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with O2 are strategies. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it provides a more controlled oxidation state. The O2 from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This effect is also observed in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide catalysts. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization degree. Propene selectivity remains high as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Research is needed on the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, and propene selectivity was 80% with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions was used to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41 and assess their reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propylene yields with Fe-zeolites, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation by coke is a significant issue, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, impacting propylene yield. Strategies to enhance catalyst stability and prevent deactivation are critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, reducing propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking and deactivation. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is needed to understand coke formation and surface deactivation mechanisms. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking. Advanced research is essential to overcome these limitations and make N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve superior propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and in situ regeneration techniques. Research should explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts like iron zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. N2O's presence shifts catalytic sites to a more reduced state, promoting selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. Optimal selectivity in ODHP requires both O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials and further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, rapid deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, mitigated by higher temperatures. O2 as an oxidant yields much lower propene (<5%) and increases COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and improving catalyst regeneration, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion and oxygen consumption, while increasing propylene yield and selectivity. However, at higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance and addressing challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, which are critical for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature, complicates N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, and coke deposition limits catalyst lifetime. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and enhance catalyst longevity, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are essential for high selectivity to propene, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propene selectivity across different VOx species. The positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2 by reducing re-oxidation of VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This leads to up to three times higher propylene selectivity, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O influence selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The use of N2O mitigates the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can lead to catalyst deactivation. However, the lower activity of N2O compared to O2 presents a challenge. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Further research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by its ability to increase propylene yield while decreasing CO2 production and oxygen conversion. This is attributed to N2O's promotion of molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. However, challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical application. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Research directions could focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding how N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. For instance, using more stable catalysts or improving catalysts' activity and selectivity could be explored, alongside optimizing temperature, pressure, and feed composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA is significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique, with its real-time mass change measurements, offers three advantages over conventional microbalances: defined flow pattern, fast response time, and high mass resolution. The TEOM correlates activity and deactivation by monitoring reaction and coking simultaneously. Steam-activated FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance is tentatively linked to its iron constitution and porous structure, which may reduce pore blocking by coke and improve reactant/product transport. Direct N2O decomposition activity is higher in FeZSM-5, suggesting increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity, attributed to its reoxidation of vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. This slower reoxidation enhances propene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a significant hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it allows catalytic sites to work in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and minimizing propene's oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high until vanadium surface concentration exceeds monolayer coverage, leading to agglomerization and decreased selectivity. N2O mitigates this effect compared to O2. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer reactive oxygen species than O2, contributing to its selectivity. However, the nature of these species requires further investigation. Prior research on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts showed higher propene selectivity (80%) with N2O versus O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower turnover frequency. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is proposed to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, addressing the need for advanced research to overcome limitations in catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% propene yields with Fe-zeolites at high temperatures, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation limits Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation mechanisms involve active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation limits iron zeolites' performance, reducing propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy are essential for studying deactivation mechanisms and carbonaceous deposits, but detailed in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking. Research is needed to understand catalyst regeneration and reusability, complementing infrared and TEOMGC results with XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption analyses.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and resistance to deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, making it an effective greenhouse gas utilization strategy. Replacing oxygen with N2O enhances propylene yield across catalysts like Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and enhancing catalyst resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. N2O's presence shifts catalytic sites to a more reduced state, promoting selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating molecular oxygen for catalyst regeneration. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its specificity as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O. The presence of O2 decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows enhanced propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion, increasing propylene yield and selectivity, and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, could modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. Critical challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue ([5]), exacerbated by propane's reductant role and unclear deactivation mechanisms. Research is needed to understand deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke and extend catalyst life, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support achieve high propene selectivity by avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for propane and propene activation, can control selective oxidation and combustion, achieved by substituting N2O for O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODP reaction. N2O decomposition over reducible metal oxides yields selective mononuclear oxygen species. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies such as developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are used. N2O's addition enhances propylene selectivity, reduces propane and oxygen conversion, and decreases CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial. Strategies include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests a synergistic effect in mixed catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities. Remarkable yields of propionaldehyde (up to 6%) are obtained. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which propels carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating can restore activity, but full recovery needs oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, allowing catalytic sites to operate in a more reduced state. This limits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls the oxidation state of the catalyst. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to improve catalyst performance and overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with V2O5 nanocrystallites causing a drop in propene selectivity. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, aiming to improve catalysts for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propylene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation limits Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, reducing propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis effectively monitors coking and deactivation, but lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is needed to understand coke formation and surface changes in real time. Research on selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability is lacking, highlighting the need for advanced studies to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and explore alternative iron sources, aiming to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing a greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron and vanadium-based ones. However, catalysts deactivate rapidly, mainly due to coke formation, hindering N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species, promoting ODHP selectively. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation, necessitating molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and modulating catalyst oxidation state during ODHP highlights its potential for improving selectivity. Further research is needed to optimize N2O concentration and catalyst design for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and by employing N2O. N2O's reduced reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen leading to COx formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its performance is attributed to its specificity as a monooxygen donor and the capability of iron forms in the zeolite to coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a major drawback, leading to decreased propene yields. Increasing temperature reduces deactivation rates, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, associated with high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant leads to significantly lower C3H6 yields compared to N2O. Strategies to address catalyst limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying catalysts less susceptible to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalyst systems for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective and pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, as observed in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion and oxygen consumption, while increasing propylene yield and selectivity. However, at higher concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature, is a significant challenge. The deactivation mechanism is not fully understood, and coke deposition limits catalyst lifetime. Addressing these requires research into stable catalysts and conditions that minimize coke formation, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity for V2O5. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor selective propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity. [1] [3] [5] [13]", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts, whereas N2O yields mononuclear oxygen species, which are considered selective. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, as evidenced by decreased propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, benefit from N2O, which promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity (Quote 3). Under N2O, molybdenum in NiMoO4 operates in a more reduced state, improving selectivity (Quote 7). N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction (Quote 10). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, which limit practical application. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability, such as using more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions, could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. However, catalysts deactivate due to coke formation. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, revealing deactivation patterns. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation, as N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. Recombination of atomic oxygen and desorption as O2 can react with coke, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per quotes [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction (quotes [3], [4], [5], and [7]), is a major challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures partially restores activity (quote [8]). Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, likely increasing the reduction rate. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. Understanding and controlling catalyst deactivation and stability remain critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene over-oxidation. Selectivity remains high as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage. However, direct propane oxidation occurs with both oxidants when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, though less so with N2O. Research suggests that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Advanced studies aim to identify oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41, crucial for understanding and improving catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields at high temperatures, matching top performances by V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites, notably activated by steam, are pivotal, with N2O's monooxygen donation enhancing propane dehydrogenation efficiency. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta zeolites deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. The varied deactivation rates suggest differing iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM coupled with GC have been instrumental in correlating deactivation with coking, yet they lack surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, necessitating further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve up to 22% propylene yield at 643-773 K. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research directions include optimizing catalyst formulations for stability, minimizing coke formation, and exploring alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, particularly with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 catalysts excel in C3H6 yield. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly from coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O is unsuitable for ODHP as O2 is crucial for catalyst regeneration; without it, catalysts deactivate rapidly due to high carbon formation. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODHP contribute to improved selectivity. Research should focus on optimizing N2O and O2 ratios to enhance catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits its performance, with higher temperatures reducing deactivation rates. Compared to O2, N2O yields significantly higher C3H6, with O2 addition decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying cost-effective catalysts for N2O production, enhancing the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other reactions. In nickel molybdate-catalyzed ODHP, N2O addition modifies catalytic performance: it decreases propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance, addressing challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP (Quote [3]), but face deactivation issues (Quote [5]) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote [6]). Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms (Quote [7]) and develop stable catalysts to minimize coke formation and extend lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance propene selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, up to three times more than O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This improvement is significant for catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O decreasing CO and CO2 formation and increasing propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species is essential for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The higher polymerized VOx species have a higher activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The importance of direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx is significantly higher in the presence of O2 than in N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by its ability to promote molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4 catalysts, enhancing selectivity (quotes 2, 3, 7). Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, indicating potential limitations for practical use. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions (quote 10), aiming to make N2O-ODHP a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and extraframework iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. TEOM analysis correlates activity with deactivation, revealing faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but can also lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a key challenge. Partial regeneration is possible under N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires O2. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    