Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and fostering a reduced catalyst state, directly oxidizing propane to propene, and modulating selectivity through promoter concentration adjustments.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, as evidenced across iron-zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based catalysts. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species limits active lattice oxygen, curbing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, mitigated by N2O. Unlike N2O, other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. Research aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41. A previous study showed N2O halved propane conversion turnover frequency compared to O2, yet doubled propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is exploring the reactivity of oxygen species from N2O and O2 towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields 24% initial propene with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances iron zeolites' efficiency in propane dehydrogenation [1], but catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits propylene yield [2]. In situ techniques, like FTIR spectroscopy, are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms and carbon deposit formation on zeolite catalysts [7]. Detailed studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability after regeneration are lacking [10], highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures than traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieve notable propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation limits stability. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Further research on iron sources, deactivation-resistant catalysts, and integrated process designs could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality, as indicated by recent studies exploring iron zeolites using N2O (quote 4) and the challenges of catalyst deactivation (quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP a viable option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, enhancing selectivity by maintaining catalytic sites in a reduced state. It limits non-selective oxygen species formation and inhibits non-selective propane activation. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that can still induce ODHP. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves on V/g-Al2O3 with well-dispersed VOx species, further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propene over COx formation, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen for selective propane oxidation. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen favor waste products. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen involved in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is linked to its monooxygen donor role and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yields. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 yields lower C3H6 compared to N2O, decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should explore coke formation and active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective N2O sources through selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen with nickel molybdate catalysts, which exhibit enhanced performance with low N2O concentrations. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity. Modulating promoter concentrations, like N2O, can adjust catalyst oxidation states, improving stability and addressing deactivation challenges, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides, as opposed to dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts, especially post-calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant hurdle, exacerbated by propane's reductant effect, complicating N2O conversion. The unclear deactivation mechanism and coke deposition challenge catalyst longevity. Research should focus on elucidating deactivation, developing robust catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by unfavorably decomposing compared to O2, reducing active sites and boosting selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support achieve high propene selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species. Both highly dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles exhibit similar propylene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2 where V2O5 lacks selectivity. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O leading to less CO and CO2 formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, particularly due to the degree of reduction of VOx species. N2O's lower reoxidation ability leads to a higher reduction degree, which is crucial for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Primary C3H6 selectivity is higher with N2O over a broad range of propane conversions, and the ability for consecutive C3H6 oxidation to COx is reduced. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity by reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, improving selectivity (Quote 3, 7). Both N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity by inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 8, 9). N2O's mechanism may involve oxygen adsorption inhibition, promoting molybdenum reduction (Quote 10). Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating research into more stable catalysts, optimized reaction conditions, and new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, influence deactivation behavior. Steam activation and iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by uniquely reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, reducing carbon oxide formation. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Partial activity restoration is achievable through N2O regeneration at high temperatures, with full recovery needing oxygen. Research emphasis should be on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, offering a controlled oxygen source for propane oxidation. Reduced catalytic sites favor propylene production. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, optimizing the process. Challenges involve catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. This is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to fewer active lattice oxygen sites and reduced propene oxidation to COx. High propene selectivity is sustained as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage, but drops sharply with V2O5 nanocrystallites. N2O mitigates total propane oxidation more effectively than O2. Oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than those from N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst demonstrated a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, whereas N2O achieved half the conversion rate but 80% propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion, compared to 50% with O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identified oxygen species from N2O and O2 and explored their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP achieves high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' success is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility loss.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, boosting iron zeolites' performance (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation by coke (Quote 2) limits propylene yield, underscoring the need for in situ studies to understand deactivation mechanisms (Quote 9). Advanced research is essential to overcome limitations, particularly regarding catalyst reusability (Quote 10), making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields up to 22%. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and exploring alternative iron sources. Advanced catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation and integrated process designs incorporating regeneration steps could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP leverages its potent greenhouse gas properties, enhancing propylene selectivity, particularly with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, as understanding deactivation mechanisms is crucial for robust catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating catalytic sites, promoting a more selective reaction (Quote 3). At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2 (Quote 5). However, pure N2O leads to catalyst deactivation, necessitating molecular oxygen for regeneration (Quote 17). N2O's role is to inhibit non-selective sites, and the presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity (Quote 19). Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical (Question).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting catalyst reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with VOx species fully covering supports and N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms favor propene over COx. Research suggests atomic oxygen species support selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation, though direct evidence is lacking. Advanced research is crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. Catalyst deactivation by coke formation is a major challenge, reducing propene yields. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, slow deactivation and correlate with higher N2O conversion. Compared to O2, N2O significantly boosts C3H6 yields, with O2 addition decreasing C3H6 selectivity and increasing COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially enhancing propylene yield while reducing propane conversion and oxygen consumption. However, excessive N2O can decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentration, akin to N2O, holds promise for enhancing catalyst stability and performance, addressing key challenges in the N2O-ODHP process, and paving the way for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, unlike dioxygen which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, serve as efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductant effect, poses a significant challenge. Research is crucial to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to reduce coke formation, improving catalyst longevity for practical N2O-ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites, favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are vital for achieving high selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, facilitated by N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, making N2O-ODHP a promising strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing active oxygen density in VOx species. This selectivity is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike with O2. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene formation. However, N2O's weaker re-oxidation ability decreases catalytic activity compared to O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by 3x compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability, enhancing catalyst reduction. This reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from N2O differ from those of O2, influencing selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, as it achieves a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. N2O's lower oxidizing ability tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, leading to a higher reduction state, which is more pronounced for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. However, N2O's lower reoxidation activity of reduced VOx species compared to O2 results in lower ODHP activity. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in maintaining high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions. Strategies to address these limitations could involve developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that can maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, promoting molybdenum reduction for improved catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, with catalyst deactivation and stability as critical issues. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction, as suggested by N2O's role and -Sb2O4's influence in controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, are generated during steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Remarkable yields of propionaldehyde (up to 6%) are obtained. TEOM, a microbalance technique, correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time measurements. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating and full restoration with O2 are promising strategies. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and refining efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, creating a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Oxygen from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Concentration adjustments can optimize selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, as evidenced with various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. A similar effect is observed in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O compared to O2 leads to lower active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization affecting propene selectivity and direct propane oxidation, which is less pronounced with N2O. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species contributing to COx formation than O2. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation is limited, necessitating further research on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and explore their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation. A turnover frequency of propane conversion of 0.016 molC3H8 mol-1 V s-1 was measured with O2, while N2O achieved half the conversion rate but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50% at approximately 10% propane conversion).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, as Fe-zeolites demonstrate. N2O's monooxygen donor trait and iron's reactive oxygen coordination in zeolites underpin this efficiency. However, coke-induced catalyst deactivation is a critical hurdle, with Fe-beta zeolites showing the highest susceptibility. FeZSM-5's behavior indicates active sites with varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation, a multifaceted issue, can stem from reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is imperative to tackle deactivation and bolster catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, enhancing propylene selectivity. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly impacts propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC are crucial for understanding deactivation mechanisms. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are needed, highlighting the necessity for advanced research to address limitations and improve N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to O2, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% propylene yield (Quote 4, 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Further research is needed to optimize catalyst formulations and reaction conditions, understand the role of acidity, and improve catalyst stability, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, making N2O-ODHP a promising but challenging option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing catalytic sites and inhibiting non-selective propane activation, as evidenced by increased propylene yield and selectivity at 300 ppm N2O. At higher concentrations, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, highlighting the necessity of molecular oxygen for catalyst regeneration. These findings underscore the potential role of N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for enhanced selectivity, suggesting that the presence of both O2 and N2O is crucial for optimal performance. Further research is needed to optimize N2O concentration and catalyst design for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and N2O's use as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, mitigate this, showing slower deactivation linked to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore coke formation mechanisms and identify catalysts less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with nickel molybdate catalysts showing improved performance and selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which might be mitigated by optimizing N2O concentration to enhance catalytic activity, offering a path for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, mitigating over-oxidation. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are key catalysts, but deactivation and coke deposition limit their effectiveness. Research is imperative to elucidate deactivation mechanisms, enhance catalyst stability, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, advancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and increasing yield compared to O2, as its decomposition is less favorable. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support boost selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx due to its weaker oxidizing potential. This reduces active oxygen density in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion. However, N2O's lower re-oxidation capacity decreases catalytic activity. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, notably with bulk-like V2O5 species, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This results in improved initial propene selectivity and reduced direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene formation. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, however, require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing selectivity. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species to maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, improving selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, hindering practical application. Research should focus on catalyst stability enhancement and deactivation reduction. N2O and -Sb2O4 likely play similar roles in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, suggesting potential synergies in catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to its structure. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min on stream. Remarkable yields of propionaldehyde (up to 6%) are obtained. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by uniquely reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly from vanadium reduction, is a critical issue. Partial activity restoration is achievable through N2O regeneration at high temperatures, with full recovery requiring O2. Research should concentrate on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and refining regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced catalytic state. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-based materials, outperforming O2. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O decreases active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene to COx conversion. VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation, and high vanadium concentrations lead to propane total oxidation, mitigated by N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation, highlighting the need for further research on oxygen species from O2 and N2O. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields high propene production, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, thanks to Fe-zeolites' monooxygen donation and reactive oxygen coordination. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation by coke deposition hinders propylene yield. In situ techniques like TEOM and FTIR spectroscopy are crucial for studying coke formation and deactivation mechanisms, yet detailed insights into these processes remain elusive. Further research is needed on catalyst regeneration and reusability, particularly for iron-containing zeolites in N2O-ODHP reactions, to address current knowledge gaps and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve up to 22% propylene yield, outperforming other methods. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge, but steam-activated zeolites show slower deactivation. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Further research is needed to develop stable catalysts, optimize conditions, and integrate regeneration for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates environmental impact by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, especially with iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders practicality. Research is crucial for improving catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by promoting a more selective state in catalytic sites. At concentrations over 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, supplying oxygen species that moderately induce ODHP. However, pure N2O is unsuitable as it necessitates molecular oxygen (O2) for catalyst regeneration to avert rapid deactivation. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state during ODHP, as evidenced by studies showing improved selectivity and yield in propylene when N2O is added to the reaction feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially isolating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is optimized by VOx species coverage and N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms prefer propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species drive selective oxidation, while polyatomic species lead to COx. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is vital for N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a monooxygen donor in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene production, attributed to iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes catalyst deactivation and reduced propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. Oxygen (O2) as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O, and small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity. Strategies include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, aiming for cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O for a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and yield, reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 production, especially at low concentrations. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity and increase carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, modulates catalyst oxidation state, enhancing performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, are superior catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with enhanced performance post-calcination. However, catalyst deactivation and the intricate conversion of N2O in the presence of propane pose significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is not fully understood, and there's a need for strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into these areas is vital for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to less favorable decomposition compared to O2, as per Quote 2. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support, mentioned in Quote 3, boost selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O, as in Quote 4, controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but enhances selectivity. Both surface VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles exhibit similar propene selectivity with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by up to three times over O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction and selectivity. Direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are minimized with N2O, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impact selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, due to its influence on the reduction degree of VOx species. This reduction degree is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity than O2 due to its lower ability for reoxidation of reduced VOx species. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. N2O's advantage lies in its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is essential for high primary propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propylene oxidation to CO and CO2. The higher polymerized VOx species have a higher activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The importance of direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx is significantly higher in the presence of O2 than in N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by its ability to reduce propane and oxygen conversion while decreasing CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4, -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are crucial, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction and improving selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, highlighting the need for stable catalysts. Research directions should focus on optimizing reaction conditions and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, akin to -Sb2O4, suggests potential synergies in mixed catalysts, offering a path to enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, and the nature of extraframework iron species influences deactivation. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which minimizes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial activity restoration is achievable through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, curtailing vanadium reduction, and devising efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, operating in a reduced state to limit non-selective oxygen species. Its dissociation produces oxygen, selectively oxidizing propane to propylene, a key advantage over other oxidants.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2. This enhancement is attributed to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, leading to a lower concentration of active lattice oxygen sites and suppression of propene's oxidation to COx. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, especially with increased agglomerization degree, which can result in lower propene selectivity and direct propane oxidation. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, aiming to improve catalyst performance and make N2O-ODHP more practical for implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propene outputs of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly rapid in Fe-beta, hinders propene yield. Deactivation mechanisms suggest varying iron site sensitivity to coke, involving reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by enabling iron species to coordinate reactive oxygen, as per [1]. However, iron zeolites' propensity to deactivate due to coke buildup, as noted in [2], hinders propylene yield. While TEOM-GC analysis offers insights into coking and deactivation, it lacks detail on surface-level mechanisms, as discussed in [3]-[5]. In situ FTIR spectroscopy, as suggested in [6]-[8], could monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, enhancing understanding of deactivation. There is a need for detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability, as highlighted in [9]-[12], to address the limitations and advance N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields, particularly with iron zeolites like steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Research directions should focus on alternative iron sources, designing deactivation-resistant catalysts, and integrating regeneration steps for practical implementation. Steam activation, as shown in studies, can improve catalytic performance and slow down deactivation by reducing the number of Brnsted acid sites, which are linked to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites like Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, making N2O-ODHP a promising yet challenging option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by operating in a reduced state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting CO2 formation. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to the need for O2 to regenerate catalysts and prevent quick deactivation. N2O reduces catalysts, causing high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation and promoting spatial separation of VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with full coverage of V/g-Al2O3 by VOx and N2O's use as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen in nickel molybdate catalysts where N2O doping increases propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low concentrations. However, high N2O levels decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations can optimize catalyst performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding CO/CO2 over-oxidation, unlike dioxygen. Iron-zeolites, particularly calcined Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicates N2O conversion. Research is needed to clarify deactivation mechanisms, prevent coke deposition, and enhance catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and controlling oxidation reactions, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation (Quotes 1, 2). High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote 3). Optimizing oxygen concentration using N2O over O2 controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms O2 in ODHP by enhancing propylene selectivity at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential curbs direct propane and propene oxidation to COx, slightly lowering catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent across dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with nanoparticles. N2O's superiority is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times over O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability remains critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over O2, particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in a higher reduction degree of VOx species, suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. Unlike O2, N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the specific surface area decreases with vanadium loading, influencing the degree of polymerization of VOx species. The VOx(2.7)/MCM-41 catalyst exhibits slightly higher catalytic activity than VOx(2.8)/SiO2 and VOx(3.4)/MCM-48, possibly due to a lower degree of polymerization of VOx species. The lowest activity was observed over the VOx(11.2)/MCM-41 sample, which possesses microcrystalline V2O5. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP. Strategies to overcome these include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing methods to regenerate deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity, reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide are used, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for improved selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical application. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial. Strategies like developing stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility. For instance, N2O's role in reducing molybdenum, as seen with NiMoO4, suggests potential for selectivity control.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface. The TEOM technique offers real-time mass change measurements, correlating activity and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, favoring propylene over carbon oxides. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Partial regeneration is achievable by heating under N2O, but full activity requires oxygen. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability and developing efficient regeneration techniques to minimize vanadium reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, likely due to its O production for propane oxidation. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, tackling catalyst stability and deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Slower VOx reoxidation with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity holds as long as vanadium surface concentration is below monolayer coverage. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes more to COx formation than N2O. Research is needed to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O, particularly on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP yields high initial propene production, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, thanks to Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation is a major hurdle, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, indicating varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's efficiency in ODHP is attributed to its mono-oxygen donor property, enhancing propane dehydrogenation through iron species coordination. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. While TEOM and GC analysis correlate deactivation with coking, they lack insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research gaps include detailed in situ studies of N2O over iron zeolites and analysis of catalyst reusability, necessitating advanced investigation methods like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption for comprehensive catalyst characterization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, achieving up to 22% propylene yield (Quote 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to overcome this include optimizing iron incorporation methods, enhancing catalyst stability, and developing in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed to understand the role of acidity in ODHP and to design catalysts with improved resistance to deactivation. The positive effect of steaming on the catalytic performance of iron zeolites for various conversions involving N2O, including ODHP, has been previously reported (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates environmental impact by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based and vanadium-based materials. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires research into more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and understanding deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating propane and oxygen conversion, enhancing propylene yield, and reducing CO2 selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O inhibits non-selective sites and, in synergy with O2, modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, improving selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species, further boosted by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. N2O's less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2 decreases active surface lattice oxygen, favoring propene over COx. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms other oxidants in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at high temperatures. This superiority is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's role in coordinating reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this issue, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. Oxygen yields significantly lower propene compared to N2O, and its addition decreases propene selectivity, increasing COx formation. Oxygen negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production, severely deteriorating FeZSM-5's performance. Strategies include optimizing temperature to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen. It modifies nickel molybdate catalysts, reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield, while increasing propylene yield and selectivity. Adjusting N2O concentration enhances catalytic performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation and stability pose challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2, as per [2]. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5 [3], are efficient catalysts, exhibiting superior performance post-calcination [4]. However, catalyst deactivation [5] is a major hurdle, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion [6]. The deactivation mechanism [7] is unclear, lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition [8] and extend catalyst lifetime. Research should focus on understanding deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for achieving high selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for propane and propene activation, is better achieved with N2O than O2, controlling selective oxidation and combustion. Advanced research is essential to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower surface densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing VOx species re-oxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction up to three times over O2, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. It curbs direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact selectivity and activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, as it reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze propene oxidation to COx. This is attributed to N2O's lower ability to reoxidize VOx species, which is beneficial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, as N2O leads to lower ODP activity. Strategies to address these include optimizing catalyst structure and composition to control the surface density of active oxygen species, developing methods to regenerate deactivated catalysts, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. The use of N2O can mitigate catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, as suggested by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion, and promotes molybdenum reduction for improved catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research should focus on stabilizing catalysts and optimizing conditions for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant in ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, are generated by steam treatment. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM technique, offering real-time monitoring of mass changes, correlates activity with deactivation, revealing the importance of steam activation for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and reducing deactivation to make N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in propane ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which otherwise boosts carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, chiefly from vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge, with carbon deposits playing a minor role. Partial regeneration through N2O heating can restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, conditions that minimize vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, creating a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Oxygen from N2O directly oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration modulates selectivity, optimizing the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization, leading to decreased propene selectivity when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate. N2O forms fewer reactive oxygen species than O2, explaining its advantage. A study using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts showed higher propene selectivity with N2O (80%) versus O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower turnover frequency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP achieves 24% propene yields at high temperatures, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts' performance. Fe-zeolites excel due to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest among Fe-zeolites. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility loss, indicating sites with varying coke sensitivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, as evidenced by iron zeolites' superior performance (Quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation by coke deposition significantly reduces propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research is essential to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability, particularly through in situ investigations of the ODHP reaction with N2O over iron-containing zeolites, which have not been reported (Quote [9]), and studies on catalyst regeneration and performance recovery (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as demonstrated by iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge (Quote 6). Advanced research is needed to develop more stable catalysts and optimize reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, making N2O-ODHP a more practical option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing this potent greenhouse gas effectively (Quote 1). Substituting N2O for oxygen boosts propylene yield, notably with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts (Quote 2). Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 production, but catalyst deactivation, chiefly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality (Quote 4). Addressing this requires stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms for robust design, making N2O-ODHP more viable (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At concentrations >300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species play a role, suggesting its ability to induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O isn't advisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP. Research should focus on developing catalysts that maintain high selectivity and stability in the presence of N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with VOx species coverage and N2O's lower reoxidation ability, reducing active surface lattice oxygen necessary for selective propane oxidation. Active sites with excess lattice oxygen favor waste product formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O influence selectivity, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen leading to COx formation. Further research is needed to confirm these roles and address catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor role and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes significant deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 yields much lower C3H6 (<5%) and decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, with benefits observed in nickel molybdate catalysts, where low N2O concentrations increase propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2. Higher N2O levels decrease selectivity and produce carbonaceous byproducts. Adjusting promoter concentration can optimize catalyst performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, addressing challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation. Advanced research is needed to refine N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation (Q[2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are key catalysts for this process (Q[3]). However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductant role and complex N2O conversion, is a major hurdle (Q[5], Q[6]). The deactivation mechanism is unclear (Q[7]), and methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst life are lacking (Q[8]). Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance catalyst longevity, making N2O-ODHP more viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation. Well-dispersed vanadia species boost selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation. (Quote 1) N2O decreases overall activity but increases propene selectivity. (Quote 2) N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, leading to higher propene selectivity. (Quote 3) Full coverage of the support by vanadia species achieves high propene selectivity. (Quote 4) Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O ensures selective oxidation and combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propylene selectivity across different VOx species by reducing the surface density of active oxygen, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This is particularly advantageous with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O significantly reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O minimizing non-selective reaction pathways. Advanced research is essential to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts, attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high selectivity. However, N2O yields lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective. N2O's reduced ability to reoxidize VOx species suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that VOx species' polymerization affects consecutive propene oxidation. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, addressable by controlling the surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalysts for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O boosts catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and optimize reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality. For instance, developing stable catalysts or refining reaction parameters could mitigate deactivation. -Sb2O4 and N2O synergistically control selectivity and inhibit non-selective sites in mixed catalysts, as shown by increased selectivity to propylene and reduced oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique reveals insights into coking and activity. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, with mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2, which boosts propene yield. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge, with carbon deposits playing a minor role. Partial regeneration through N2O heating and full restoration with O2 are viable strategies. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and refining regeneration methods for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, offering a controlled oxidation state. Its dissociated O2 selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Concentration adjustments can optimize selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in propane ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, outperforming O2. This is due to N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species, leading to fewer active lattice oxygen sites and reduced propene oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation rises with agglomerization degree, but selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. Further research is needed on the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify these species and assess their reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP with Fe-zeolites achieves high propylene yields, matching V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is linked to N2O's monooxygen donor property and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, affecting propylene yield. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and prevent deactivation are essential for N2O-ODHP's practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. In situ FTIR spectroscopy and TEOM-GC analysis are essential for understanding coke formation and deactivation mechanisms. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, highlighting the need for advanced research to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP industrially viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites like Fe-ZSM-5 (quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (quote 12). Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and in situ regeneration (quote 20). Further research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrate regeneration steps for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity and mitigates environmental impact by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Replacing oxygen with N2O boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron zeolites and vanadium-based ones, with Fe-ZSM-5 excelling in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is imperative to improve catalyst stability and elucidate deactivation mechanisms, crucial for N2O-ODHP's viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP, enhancing yield while reducing propane and oxygen conversion. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that still induce ODHP. Its presence shifts catalytic sites to a more reduced state, favoring selectivity. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. Optimal selectivity in ODHP requires both O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further optimized by N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields high propene selectivity, up to 25% at 723 K, due to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, rapid deactivation from coke formation is a critical challenge, though higher temperatures can mitigate this. O2 yields much lower propene (<5%) and increases COx production. Strategies include optimizing reaction conditions and developing coke-resistant catalysts. Research on understanding coke formation and improving catalyst regeneration could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an ODHP oxidant, exhibits superior propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially reducing propane conversion and oxygen consumption while enhancing propylene yield. However, excessive N2O concentration diminishes propylene selectivity and promotes carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can optimize catalyst performance, addressing stability and deactivation issues, critical for practical implementation. Advanced research is needed to refine N2O-ODHP for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5 post-calcination, are efficient catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductive properties, complicates N2O conversion. Unclear deactivation mechanisms and coke deposition limit catalyst longevity. Research should target understanding deactivation, developing robust catalysts, and optimizing conditions to reduce coke formation, enhancing catalyst durability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites, favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are vital for high propene selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over O2 due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but maintains propylene selectivity across different VOx species. The positive effect of N2O stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities, as observed in V/MCM-41 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2 by limiting re-oxidation of VOx species, promoting higher catalyst reduction. This results in up to three times greater propylene selectivity, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impact selectivity and activity. Challenges involve catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, as it promotes a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 show that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. N2O mitigates the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can lead to catalyst deactivation. However, the lower activity of N2O compared to O2 presents a challenge. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Further research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by increasing yield and reducing CO2 production and oxygen conversion. Its mechanism involves promoting molybdenum reduction, improving catalyst selectivity. Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, with catalyst deactivation and stability as critical issues. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions, and understanding how N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity, potentially making N2O-ODHP more viable. Strategies include improving catalyst stability and activity, optimizing reaction parameters, and exploring the synergistic effects of N2O and -Sb2O4 on selectivity modulation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique, with its real-time mass change measurements, offers three advantages over conventional microbalances: defined flow pattern, fast response time, and high mass resolution. The TEOM correlates activity and deactivation by monitoring reaction and coking simultaneously. Steam-activated FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance is tentatively linked to its iron constitution and porous structure, which may reduce pore blocking by coke and improve reactant/product transport. Direct N2O decomposition activity is higher in FeZSM-5, suggesting increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. This mechanism boosts propylene yield. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a key challenge. Partial activity restoration is possible through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and improving regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene, minimizing non-selective oxygen species. Concentration adjustments of N2O can modulate selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation and stability for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, minimizing propene's oxidation to COx. Selectivity remains high until vanadium surface concentration exceeds monolayer coverage, leading to agglomerization and decreased selectivity. N2O mitigates this effect compared to O2. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer reactive oxygen species than O2, contributing to its selectivity. Prior research on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts showed higher propene selectivity (80%) with N2O versus O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is proposed to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields 24% propene with Fe-zeolites at high temperatures, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness stems from N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation limits Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, necessitating advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen (Quote [1]). However, coke deposition on iron zeolites leads to rapid deactivation and reduced propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy are crucial for studying deactivation mechanisms and carbonaceous deposits, but detailed in situ investigations of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are scarce (Quote [9]). Research is needed to understand catalyst regeneration and reusability, complementing infrared and TEOMGC results with XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption analyses (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures than conventional oxidants. Iron zeolites, notably steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation. Further research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and resistance to deactivation, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, offering an effective greenhouse gas utilization strategy. Replacing oxygen with N2O boosts propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and enhancing resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more viable option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidizing oxygen species that induce ODHP. Its presence shifts catalytic sites to a more reduced state, enhancing selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating molecular oxygen for regeneration. The synergy of O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP. Research should focus on developing catalysts that maintain stability and selectivity in the presence of N2O, addressing the challenges of deactivation and carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting catalyst reduction, and spatially separating VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with VOx species well-dispersed on the support and N2O's lower reoxidation ability. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical implementation, requiring advanced research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling as a monooxygen donor. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, slow deactivation by increasing N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 and decreases C3H6 selectivity, increasing COx production. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying less deactivating active sites. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could enhance practical implementation by providing a pure N2O source.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, backed by evidence from other oxidation reactions. Its addition initially reduces propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and cuts oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, excessive N2O decreases propylene selectivity and promotes carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing performance. Critical challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, minimizing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation is a major hurdle ([5]), complicated by propane's reductant role and unclear deactivation mechanisms ([6]). Research is crucial to elucidate deactivation, develop robust catalysts, and optimize conditions to curb coke formation and prolong catalyst life, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants by reducing active sites and increasing selectivity due to less favorable N2O decomposition compared to O2 activation. High selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, crucial for propane and propene activation, controls selective oxidation and combustion, achieved by N2O substitution for O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an ODHP oxidant enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity by less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propylene selectivity is consistent between VOx and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring selective propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2 by reducing the re-oxidation of VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction and up to three times greater propylene selectivity, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O curbs direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalyst selectivity and activity. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation necessitate advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation. Studies show that the degree of catalyst reduction and the nature of oxygen species from N2O play crucial roles in improving propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, as demonstrated in recent studies. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is critical for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to oxygen (O2). The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODP reaction. N2O decomposition over reducible metal oxides yields selective mononuclear oxygen species. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies such as developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed, with N2O increasing propylene selectivity and reducing propane and oxygen conversion, as well as CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial. Strategies involve developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, similar to -Sb2O4, suggests a synergistic effect in mixed catalysts, as evidenced by studies showing increased selectivity to propylene and reduced CO2 yield when N2O is added to the feed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25%. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than over commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by preventing peroxovanadate formation, which reduces carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Partial regeneration through N2O heating can restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, minimizing vanadium reduction, and optimizing regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by hindering O2 adsorption and enhancing catalyst reduction, enabling a more reduced state for catalytic sites. This curbs non-selective oxygen species and regulates catalyst oxidation. Dissociated O from N2O oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can refine selectivity, a strategy to enhance catalyst performance and tackle practical implementation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to O2. Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation, especially with V2O5 nanocrystallites, causing a drop in propene selectivity. Research is needed to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O for practical N2O-ODHP implementation. Studies show that propene selectivity is higher with N2O, reaching 80% at 10% propane conversion, compared to 50% with O2. The slower reoxidation with N2O limits the formation of consecutive oxidation products, enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propylene selectivity, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts, thanks to Fe-zeolites' monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation limits Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Catalyst deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor in ODHP boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. While TEOM coupled with GC analysis effectively monitors coking and deactivation, it lacks insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is essential for real-time understanding of coke formation and surface changes. Research on selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability is scarce, underscoring the need for advanced studies to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, with iron zeolites, especially steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, achieving up to 22% yield (Quote 4, 7). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Strategies to address this include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions. Steam activation reduces deactivation rates by decreasing the number of Brnsted acid sites (Quote 20). Further research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and explore alternative iron sources, aiming to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, utilizing a greenhouse gas and boosting yields with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, often due to coke, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalyst development, condition optimization to minimize coke, and deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms for viable N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) boosts propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), enhancing yield while reducing propane and oxygen conversion. At higher concentrations, N2O selectively promotes ODHP by providing oxygen species. However, pure N2O use is discouraged due to catalyst deactivation, necessitating molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's ability to inhibit non-selective sites and modulate catalyst oxidation state during ODHP highlights its potential for improving selectivity. Further research on optimizing N2O concentration and catalyst design is essential for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and N2O's use. N2O's reduced reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation is less favorable than with O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its effectiveness stems from its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes significant catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yields. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 yields lower C3H6 compared to N2O. To address limitations, research should focus on optimizing reaction conditions, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Understanding coke formation and identifying catalysts less susceptible to deactivation are critical. A cost-effective, pure N2O source through selective catalyst systems for low-temperature NH3 oxidation could enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, initially enhancing propylene yield while reducing propane conversion and oxygen consumption. However, excessive N2O decreases selectivity and promotes carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations can optimize catalyst performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, particularly Fe-ZSM-5, excel as catalysts in N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation, influenced by propane's reductive properties, is a major hurdle. The deactivation mechanism is complex, and coke deposition shortens catalyst lifespan. Research into stable catalysts and conditions that mitigate coke formation is crucial to enhance the practicality of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support further boost selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, curbing direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This is attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion reactions at lower surface densities. Unlike O2, N2O ensures consistent propene selectivity between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), due to its reduced re-oxidation ability of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies demonstrate up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, enhancing initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O impacts catalyst selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica, compared to oxygen (O2). This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is critical for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower reoxidation ability of reduced VOx species results in lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, revealing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts, whereas N2O yields mononuclear oxygen species, which are considered selective. Catalyst deactivation and stability are significant challenges, necessitating strategies to develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimize reaction conditions for selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is essential to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a viable option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity, evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 benefit from N2O, promoting molybdenum reduction and improving selectivity. Under N2O, molybdenum in NiMoO4 operates in a more reduced state, boosting selectivity. N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practical application. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through more stable catalysts or optimized reaction conditions could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, due to its mesoporous structure that reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, revealing deactivation patterns. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation, as N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. Recombination of atomic oxygen and desorption as O2 can react with coke, partially regenerating the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per quotes [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction (quotes [3], [4], [5], and [7]), is a significant hurdle. Partial activity restoration through regeneration under N2O at high temperatures (quote [8]) suggests research avenues for improving catalyst stability and exploring alternative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and fostering a reduced catalyst state, enhancing reduction rates. Dissociated O from N2O selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Concentration adjustments of N2O can modulate selectivity, optimizing the reaction. Advanced research on catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, outperforming O2. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species reduces active oxygen sites, suppressing propene over-oxidation. Selectivity remains high until vanadium surface concentration exceeds monolayer coverage. Direct propane oxidation occurs with both oxidants when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, but N2O mitigates this effect. Research indicates non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute more to COx formation than N2O. Advanced studies aim to identify oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41, critical for enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in propane ODHP yields high propylene selectivity, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Steam-activated Fe-zeolites, especially with N2O's monooxygen donation, enhance propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation, particularly in Fe-beta zeolites, reduces propene yield. Differing iron site sensitivity to coke affects deactivation rates. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, facilitated by iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM coupled with GC have been pivotal in correlating deactivation with coking, yet they lack insights into surface-level deactivation mechanisms. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, essential for understanding deactivation. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are scarce, necessitating further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields, up to 22% with steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 at 643-773 K. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research is needed to optimize catalyst formulations for stability, minimize coke formation, and explore alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, notably with iron-zeolites and vanadium catalysts, where Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 yield. However, rapid deactivation, chiefly due to coke, hinders N2O's practicality. Research is vital for improved catalyst stability and deactivation understanding, aiming to refine N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O boosts propylene selectivity in ODHP by moderating the catalyst's redox state, as evidenced by a 300 ppm addition increasing propylene yield and selectivity (Quote 2). At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing less oxidative oxygen species that still induce ODHP (Quote 5). However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to rapid catalyst deactivation from carbon deposition without O2 (Quote 17). N2O inhibits non-selective sites, and the O2-N2O synergy modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing selectivity (Quote 19). Research should optimize N2O-O2 ratios to improve catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by minimizing catalyst reoxidation, promoting reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials improve propylene selectivity, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation, with active sites having more than two lattice oxygen species favoring waste product formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O's role as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5 yields up to 25% propene at 723 K, excelling due to its monooxygen donor property and iron forms coordinating reactive oxygen. However, catalyst deactivation from coke formation limits performance, with higher temperatures mitigating deactivation. Compared to O2, N2O significantly boosts C3H6 yields, as O2 addition decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx. Strategies include optimizing temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying cost-effective catalysts for N2O production, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as seen in nickel molybdate-catalyzed reactions where it enhances propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low concentrations. However, high N2O concentrations decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can improve catalyst performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, addressing challenges in deactivation and stability, making N2O-ODHP a promising area for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by preventing over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote [2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are key catalysts (Quote [3]), but face deactivation (Quote [5]) and complex N2O conversion in propane presence (Quote [6]). Research is vital to elucidate deactivation mechanisms (Quote [7]) and develop stable catalysts to minimize coke formation (Quote [8]), enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by reducing active sites due to its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, as vanadia species on the support boost propene selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity by less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent between different catalyst forms with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at reduced densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP significantly boosts propylene selectivity, achieving up to three times higher selectivity than O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. This enhancement is particularly notable for catalysts featuring bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O's lower propensity for direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx results in improved initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O decreasing CO and CO2 formation while increasing propene selectivity. Challenges remain in catalyst stability and deactivation, necessitating advanced research to optimize catalyst performance and overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity over vanadia catalysts due to its ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of VOx species, crucial for suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability reduces ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen considered nonselective. The higher polymerized VOx species have a higher activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx are more significant in the presence of O2 than N2O. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as it promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4 catalysts, improving selectivity (quotes 2, 3, 7). Challenges include reduced propane conversion and CO2 yield, indicating practical limitations. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to inhibit oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction (quote 10), aiming to make N2O-ODHP industrially viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a critical challenge, with FeZSM-5 showing notable resistance unlike FeBEA. Steam activation and extraframework iron species are crucial for high catalytic activities. TEOM analysis reveals faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but can also lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition resist coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by efficiently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits, poses a significant challenge. Partial catalyst regeneration is achievable under N2O at high temperatures, but full activity restoration requires O2. Research should concentrate on improving catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing effective regeneration techniques to make N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    