Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works by dissociating O to oxidize propane to propene. In a more reduced state, catalytic sites limit non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Studies suggest N2O forms fewer non-lattice oxygen species, reducing COx formation. Research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, halving with N2O, yet propene selectivity increased to 80% from 50%. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identified oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41, exploring their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a major challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest among studied zeolites. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to overcome these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC are essential for understanding coke formation and deactivation mechanisms, but detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations, ensuring N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in this process, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge, affecting the stability and lifetime of the catalysts. Research is needed to develop more stable catalyst formulations, optimize reaction conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Strategies include investigating alternative iron sources, designing catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation, and integrating catalyst regeneration steps into process designs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Replacing oxygen with N2O significantly increases propylene yield across various catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility compared to CO2. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust catalyst design in N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalytic sites, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable as molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst regeneration, preventing rapid deactivation. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state during ODHP contribute to improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 materials with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O affects catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species favoring selective oxidation. Direct evidence is lacking. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production, deteriorating FeZSM-5's performance. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. In the ODHP process, nickel molybdate catalysts' performance is modified by N2O addition, reducing propane conversion, increasing propylene yield and selectivity, and decreasing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low N2O concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving their stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane, forming CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, exacerbated by the presence of propane, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is not fully understood, and there's a lack of methods to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene yield. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for high-performance ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced re-oxidation of surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's positive effect stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by up to three times compared to oxygen (O2), particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize vanadium oxide species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a lower ODP activity than O2 but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. It promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. Quotes support these findings, indicating that N2O's role in promoting reduction and controlling selectivity is significant.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time measurements of mass changes during gas-solid reactions, providing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, and the presence of mesopores in FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking by coke, improving reactant and product transport. The activity of FeZSM-5 in N2O decomposition is higher than Fe-silicalite, and N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, recombination of atomic oxygen and desorption as O2 may lead to coke reaction, resulting in COx and partial catalyst regeneration. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which leads to carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration is possible with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, as it creates a more reduced state for catalytic sites. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to overcome catalyst deactivation and stability issues, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. However, VOx agglomerization increases consecutive propene oxidation. Selectivity remains high below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is limited. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, indicating diverse iron site sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP (Quote [1]). However, coke deactivation significantly reduces propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and catalyst regeneration, particularly using in situ FTIR spectroscopy for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes (Quote [6]). Detailed in situ studies on N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability remain unexplored, highlighting the need for further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to O2. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts under N2O, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced iron sources and incorporation methods, along with catalysts resistant to deactivation, could enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen significantly increases propylene yield across various catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP a practical reality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. However, pure N2O isn't viable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is essential for catalyst regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating catalyst oxidation state highlight its potential in ODHP, warranting further research to address catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O acts as an effective oxidant. Its lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as catalyst reoxidation by N2O is less favorable than by O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its superiority stems from its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields much lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to overcome limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, could improve catalyst performance by modulating the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, addressing challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability. Further research is needed to optimize N2O concentration for enhanced catalytic activity and practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, achieving superior performance after calcination ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature, poses a significant challenge. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop more stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing catalyst lifetime for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing selectivity (Quote 1, 2). High propene selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, crucial for selective oxidation and combustion, is better with N2O over O2 (Quote 4). Advanced research is needed to overcome catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's consecutive oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize surface VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's positive effect stems from lowering surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, up to three times more than O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This improvement is particularly evident with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, boosting initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly impacts catalyst selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts employed in ODHP, such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48, show varying degrees of polymerization of VOx species, affecting their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations in catalyst stability and to make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, with NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mix, and Pd/Zr-Ce-O catalysts. N2O notably increases propylene selectivity, decreases propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction under N2O enhances selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practicality. Research directions focus on stable catalysts, activity enhancement, and optimizing reaction conditions to address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance is linked to its porous structure and iron constitution. Steam activation is vital for high catalytic activities. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but can also lead to coke reaction, partially regenerating the catalyst surface. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition show increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, as it reoxidizes vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, per [3] and [5], is a hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, as per [8], but full restoration needs oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, as it creates a more reduced state for catalytic sites. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over diverse catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active oxygen sites and minimizing propylene's oxidation to COx. Challenges arise with VOx agglomerization, decreasing propylene selectivity and causing propane's total oxidation, albeit less severe with N2O. Research is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, as preliminary studies suggest non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation more than N2O. Kinetic analysis and EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions are proposed to identify these oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, aiming to improve catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top performances by V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's deactivation behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore space accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address deactivation and enhance catalyst stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis offers detailed insights into coke formation but lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism details. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation. Despite these tools, in situ studies on N2O selective oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability remain unexplored, indicating a research gap for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve up to 22% propylene yield, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge, with steamed zeolites showing slower deactivation rates. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Investigating alternative iron sources, improving catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrating catalyst regeneration steps could enhance N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to reduce coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. Optimal selectivity in ODHP is achieved with a combination of O2 and N2O, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved on V/g-Al2O3 materials with well-dispersed VOx and further tuned by N2O. Its lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Reduced active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen atoms. More oxygen favors waste product formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Direct evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the coordination of reactive oxygen species by iron in the zeolite. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's use significantly decreases C3H6 yields and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to overcome limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts are used in this process, with N2O addition affecting catalytic performance: it decreases propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, with superior performance after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue, with the conversion of N2O on iron-zeolites complicated by propane. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, as N2O decomposition is less favorable, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface achieve high propene selectivity by avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propylene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of VOx species. Propylene selectivity is consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species. This results in a higher catalyst reduction degree, enhancing propene selectivity, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O decreasing CO2 and CO formation compared to O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is essential for achieving high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity with N2O than with O2, as observed for VOx/MCM-41 and VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalytic materials. The nature of oxygen species also plays a critical role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are major challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring advanced research to develop strategies that address these limitations, such as optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability. The use of N2O can mitigate catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, but its lower activity compared to O2 remains a limitation. Research directions should focus on understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that can maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, as evidenced by a decrease in CO2 yield and oxygen conversion (Quote 2). This is facilitated by the reduction of molybdenum in catalysts like NiMoO4 (Quote 3), promoting selectivity (Quote 7). N2O's role in controlling selectivity is similar to that of -Sb2O4, which irrigates MoO3's surface with oxygen (Quote 8). However, catalyst deactivation and stability pose significant challenges. Research directions should focus on developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions to improve catalyst longevity and selectivity, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical (Quote 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing the influence of zeolite structure on deactivation rates. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, and the presence of mesopores in FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and slows deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposits ([3], [4], [5]), is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity ([8]), but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. This limits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls the oxidation state of the catalyst. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. This effect is less pronounced with V2O5 nanocrystallites, where propene selectivity drops and propane undergoes total oxidation. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species than O2, affecting COx formation. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41 is limited, highlighting a research gap. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, compared to half with N2O, yet propene selectivity was 80% vs. 50% at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a major challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke-induced deactivation limits iron zeolites, affecting propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOM-GC analysis are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms, though detailed surface-level insights are lacking. Advanced research is needed to explore selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and assess catalyst reusability post-regeneration, as these areas remain underexplored.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, show remarkable performance, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and in situ regeneration techniques. Research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate regeneration steps for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity across various catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based materials, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2, which is necessary for catalyst regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and its synergy with O2 in modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity is pivotal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering supports with well-dispersed VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx, while more oxygen species favor waste products. Atomic oxygen species are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its performance is attributed to N2O's specificity as a monooxygen donor and iron's role in coordinating reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, deactivation by coke formation limits propene yield. Increasing temperature reduces deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields much lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production, deteriorating FeZSM-5's performance. Strategies include optimizing temperature to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research could focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity over molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts, when doped with N2O, show improved propylene yield and selectivity at low N2O concentrations, with reduced oxygen consumption and CO2 production. Higher N2O levels decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, with complex N2O conversion on iron-zeolites and unclear deactivation mechanisms. Research is needed to understand deactivation, develop stable catalysts, and optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and enhancing propene formation, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for high propene selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but enhances selectivity, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower surface densities. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by up to three times compared to oxygen (O2), particularly when catalysts contain bulk-like V2O5 species. This improvement is attributed to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to a higher degree of catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The critical challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed through advanced research focusing on the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Strategies could involve the design of selective catalysts, understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation, and the development of new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are pivotal, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability pose significant challenges. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding how N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at 723 K. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, influence deactivation behavior. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, due to mesopores from dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Ex-FeZSM-5 shows higher activity in N2O decomposition than ex-Fe-silicalite. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can react with coke, leading to COx and partial catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in propane ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction [3] and [5], is a hurdle. Regeneration via N2O heating at high temperatures can partially restore activity [8]. Advanced research is needed for stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. The O2 from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to improve catalyst stability and address deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species leads to fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity remains stable under monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops significantly with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is limited. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates iron zeolites, diminishing propylene yield. Advanced in situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy are needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and regeneration in the C3H8 + N2O reaction. Research gaps include the lack of in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and the detailed evaluation of catalyst reusability after regeneration. Detailed analysis methods, complemented by infrared and TEOMGC experiments, are essential for assessing catalyst reversibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts under N2O, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions, and explore alternative iron sources to enhance resistance to deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this through stable catalyst development and understanding deactivation mechanisms is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating catalyst oxidation state during ODHP are key to improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, and N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene yield. Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O compared to O2 boosts selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its superiority is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, correlating with higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production, and deteriorates performance. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts, when doped with N2O, exhibit modified catalytic performance: propane conversion decreases, propylene yield and selectivity increase, and oxygen consumption and CO2 yield reduce at low N2O concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing catalytic performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts for this process ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, poses a significant challenge ([5], [6]). The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is not fully understood, lacking effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime ([7], [8]). Addressing these limitations through advanced research could enhance N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity (Quote 1, 2). High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species (Quote 3). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, using N2O over O2, controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, attributed to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity due to N2O's reduced re-oxidation ability of surface VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity with V2O5. N2O's positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This improvement is significant for catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. [Quote 1] and [Quote 3] demonstrate higher initial propene selectivity with N2O across various vanadium oxides. [Quote 5] and [Quote 13] highlight the role of vanadium site reduction degree and oxygen species nature in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species and the degree of polymerization of VOx species influence the catalytic performance. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide, with N2O, enhance propylene selectivity while reducing molybdenum, improving catalyst selectivity. However, catalyst deactivation and stability pose challenges. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding how N2O and -Sb2O4 control selectivity, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yield at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yield over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA is significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve stability for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which propels carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a major hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, working in a reduced state to produce selective oxygen species for propane oxidation to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction and address catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx agglomerization increases consecutive propene oxidation, affecting selectivity. When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops, and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is limited. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, while N2O achieved half the conversion rate but 80% propene selectivity versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions was used to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 over VOx/MCM-41 and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, rapid deactivation by coke limits performance, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, boosting iron zeolites' performance in ODHP (Quote [1]). However, catalyst deactivation by coke (Quote [2]) significantly reduces propylene yield. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability after regeneration (Quote [6]). In situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking (Quote [9]), highlighting the need for detailed investigations to address limitations and enhance practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants, as highlighted by independent research (quote 4). Iron zeolites, particularly those activated by steam, have shown exceptional performance in this process. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge (quote 6), affecting the stability and lifetime of the catalyst. Addressing this limitation requires advanced research into more stable catalyst formulations, optimized reaction conditions, and in situ regeneration techniques. Potential research directions include exploring alternative iron sources, designing catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation, and integrating catalyst regeneration steps into the process design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. Despite this, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, contributing to ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O isn't suitable for ODHP due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and its synergy with O2 for improved selectivity are crucial. The presence of both O2 and N2O modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, enhancing propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on the catalyst surface and further enhanced by N2O's lower reoxidation ability, which promotes propene production. The nature of oxygen species from N2O and O2 influences catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation. Direct evidence is lacking, but the theory supports N2O's role in selective propane oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability challenges require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its performance is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the capability of iron forms in the zeolite to coordinate reactive oxygen species for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures, like 773 K, slow down deactivation and increase N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity compared to N2O. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, evidenced by its performance in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially increasing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving their stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts for N2O-ODHP ([3]). However, catalyst deactivation ([5]) and complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane hinder performance. Research on deactivation mechanisms, stable catalysts, and conditions minimizing coke formation is crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential that inhibits direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. This effect is linked to reduced surface density of active oxygen in VOx species, favoring propene formation over combustion. Despite lower catalytic activity, N2O ensures comparable propene selectivity with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2 which diminishes selectivity with V2O5. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and re-oxidation efficiency for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to greater catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, critical for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity and suppressing consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity compared to O2, but it also reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. The use of N2O can mitigate catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective oxygen species. Strategies for practical implementation include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity while ensuring catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide enhance this process. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, indicating potential limitations. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation resistance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits, is a key challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration needing O2. Research should aim at enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, keeping catalytic sites in a reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across diverse catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides. Its slower reoxidation of VOx species compared to O2 reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation rises with agglomerization. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 is limited. Prior studies on the same VOx/MCM-41 catalyst show a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, halving with N2O, yet propene selectivity increases from 50% to 80% at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions identifies oxygen species from N2O and O2, exploring their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, achieving 24% initial propene yields with Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is linked to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, though regeneration in pure oxygen at 773 K can restore activity. Deactivation rates vary: Fe-beta > Fe-silicalite > FeZSM-5, with FeZSM-5's behavior indicating diverse iron sites' sensitivity to coke. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. TEOM with GC analysis reveals deactivation and coking correlations, yet lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Despite TEOM's detailed coke formation insights, in situ studies on N2O selective oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, highlighting research gaps. Complementary spectroscopic studies and catalyst characterization methods are essential for evaluating reversibility and improving practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields up to 22%. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and explore alternative iron sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to make N2O-ODHP a practical option. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to reduce coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalysts to a more selective state. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and the synergistic effect of O2 and N2O in modulating catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity are key findings. Further research is needed to optimize N2O-ODHP for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This separation favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Propylene selectivity is improved by fully covering the support with well-dispersed VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity compared to O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation, as only one to two lattice oxygen are necessary for the former reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields due to its monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 significantly decreases C3H6 yields and selectivity compared to N2O, increasing COx production and negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation, alongside developing cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in oxidation reactions. Adding N2O as a gas dope modifies catalytic performance: it decreases propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and form carbonaceous products. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability need further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, poses a significant challenge. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active sites and enhancing propene formation, as N2O decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high propene selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation challenges. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity but favoring propylene formation. VOx species' surface density is crucial, with N2O's weaker re-oxidation ability enhancing selectivity. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propylene over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. This improvement is particularly notable with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, boosting initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability, crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The critical challenges in N2O-ODHP include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Strategies for practical implementation could involve understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, when used as an oxidant in ODHP, significantly boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Its mechanism involves promoting molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, which limit practical application. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and potentially inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction. These approaches could make N2O-ODHP more viable for implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after extended periods. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, reveals that the nature of iron species, zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities, and the more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking by coke, improving reactant and product transport. Highly active Fe-zeolite catalysts in direct N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction ([3], [5]), is a major hurdle. Partial activity restoration through N2O heating ([8]) suggests research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, likely due to its ability to maintain catalytic sites in a reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a promising area for further research.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence aims to identify oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will explore the reactivity of these species towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation. Propane conversion turnover frequency is higher with O2, but propene selectivity is 80% with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields akin to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2, thanks to Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly by coke, poses a significant challenge, with varying rates among Fe-zeolites, indicating differing sensitivity to deactivation. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and overcome deactivation, crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as evidenced by iron zeolites' superior performance [1]. However, catalyst deactivation by coke formation significantly reduces propylene yield [2]. While TEOM and GC analysis effectively monitor coking and deactivation, they lack surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can track carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in understanding ODHP. Yet, detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking [6], [9], [10]. Complementary spectroscopic techniques and reaction condition studies are needed to address these gaps.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts that achieve significant propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a critical challenge. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke, and exploring alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation. Steam activation and the presence of iron impurities in H-ZSM-5 are beneficial, leading to higher propylene yields and lower COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and improving stability are key to making N2O-ODHP a practical petrochemical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing a strong greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants. Iron-based and redox metal catalysts, like vanadium and molybdenum, enhance propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this through stable catalyst development and understanding deactivation mechanisms could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less effectively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing catalyst reduction, and spatially separating active lattice oxygen in VOx species (quotes [1], [4], [5], [6]). Propylene selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species (quote [2]), and N2O as an oxidant further tunes selectivity (quote [3]). Reduced VOx site reoxidation by N2O enhances propene selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx formation (quote [6]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving significant propene yields. The catalyst's performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures slow deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields much lower propene compared to N2O, and its addition to the C3H8+N2O mixture decreases propene selectivity and increases COx production. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less susceptible to deactivation. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O as a gas dope to nickel molybdate catalysts modifies performance, initially reducing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity, while decreasing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, could improve catalyst performance and address deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, with superior performance after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, with complex N2O conversion on iron-zeolites and an unclear deactivation mechanism. Addressing these limitations requires further research into deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst lifetime.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, reducing active sites and enhancing propene formation. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key for high selectivity, avoiding propene's strong adsorption. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achievable with N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, addressing catalyst stability and deactivation issues. Advanced research should focus on catalyst design and N2O utilization for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering superior propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity but enhancing selectivity. No significant propylene selectivity difference exists between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O. However, V2O5 nanoparticles lack selectivity with O2. N2O's benefit stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. This is due to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Research directions should focus on overcoming catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for high propene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a lower ODP activity than O2 but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for ODHP over certain catalysts. The critical challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring strategies to maintain a high degree of reduction of vanadium species and prevent nonselective oxygen species formation. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms, developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species, and optimizing reaction conditions for selective oxygen species formation. N2O's advantages in ODHP are related to its ability to achieve higher primary propene selectivity and lower activity for consecutive propene oxidation, which is more pronounced for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the degree of reduction of vanadium species, leading to higher propene selectivity. However, the degree of reduction is not the only factor; the nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Catalyst deactivation and stability challenges can be mitigated by optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants that maintain high selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. Studies show that N2O's addition to NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixtures can decrease propane conversion but significantly increase propylene selectivity, indicating its role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, offers real-time monitoring of mass changes during reactions, revealing insights into activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, formed by dealumination, may reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP. Research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and improve practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which promotes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Partial regeneration via N2O heating and full restoration with oxygen reoxidation are strategies. Research should aim for more stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and effective regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, as it works by limiting non-selective oxygen species formation and controlling catalyst oxidation state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation specifically oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over diverse catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). Slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, although N2O mitigates this. Research suggests N2O forms fewer non-lattice oxygen species than O2, affecting COx formation. Further investigation is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation. Prior studies on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP showed N2O achieved 80% propene selectivity at 10% propane conversion, versus 50% with O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions can identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, with Fe-zeolites achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts. N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation are key. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, varying among Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address deactivation, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing ODHP performance (Quote [1]). However, iron zeolites deactivate by coke buildup, reducing propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research is needed, including in situ spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions to understand deactivation and regeneration (Quote [6]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, aiding in the comprehension of the ODHP reaction under true process conditions. TEOM technique complements this by correlating deactivation with coking, though it lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. Detailed investigations on catalyst reusability and regeneration effectiveness are required. Characterization methods like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption can assess catalyst reversibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and improved propylene selectivity compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly when activated by steam, are effective catalysts in N2O-ODHP, achieving high propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to overcome this include developing more stable catalyst formulations, optimizing reaction conditions, and employing in situ regeneration techniques. Further research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrate catalyst regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalytic sites, promoting selectivity. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O's role in inhibiting non-selective sites and its synergy with O2 to modulate catalyst oxidation state during ODHP highlights its potential for improving selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 materials, further tunable with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Reduced active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen. More oxygen species favor waste product formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. This performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation deactivates the catalyst, rapidly reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence significantly lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, deteriorating performance. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing temperature to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving catalyst regeneration. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O, enhancing practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts in the presence of N2O improve propylene yield and selectivity, reduce oxygen consumption, and lower CO2 production at low N2O concentrations. However, high N2O levels decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate oxide catalysts' oxidation state, offering a strategy to improve catalytic performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2 ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are key catalysts for N2O-ODHP, showing superior performance ([3]). Catalyst deactivation, a critical issue ([5]), complicates N2O conversion on iron-zeolites, with deactivation mechanisms needing further study. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and minimizing coke formation to extend catalyst lifetime, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to its less favorable decomposition compared to O2, reducing active sites and enhancing propene formation. High selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species on the support, optimizing active lattice oxygen for selective oxidation and combustion. Using N2O optimizes this concentration, controlling reactions effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity but favoring propene formation. VOx species' surface density is crucial, as N2O's weaker re-oxidation ability enhances selectivity by spatially separating active oxygen. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This improvement is particularly evident with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity, with N2O leading to less COx formation and higher propene selectivity. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. The lower ability of N2O to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for higher propylene selectivity and reduced consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5 show this effect more prominently. The degree of reduction of VOx species is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O's lower ODP activity compared to O2 presents a challenge. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing the catalyst structure to enhance stability and selectivity, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, reducing CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, benefit from N2O, which promotes molybdenum reduction for better selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion decrease and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. The TEOM, with its real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation resistance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by gently reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, noted in [3] and [5], is chiefly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposits. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures, as in [8], partially revives activity, needing oxygen for full restoration. Research should target stable catalysts, optimized conditions to curb vanadium reduction, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works by limiting non-selective oxygen species formation and controlling catalyst oxidation state. The dissociation of N2O produces oxygen that selectively oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, making it a promising strategy for practical implementation. Catalysts in a more reduced state due to N2O presence improve the efficiency of the ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with increased agglomerization degree. Propene selectivity drops dramatically with V2O5 nanocrystallites, but N2O mitigates this effect. Research suggests other oxygen species form from O2, unlike N2O, contributing to COx formation. Limited data exists on the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O. Studies aim to identify these species using EPR spectroscopy, focusing on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. N2O yields higher propene selectivity (80%) than O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion, despite a lower turnover frequency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high initial propene yields of 24% at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a major challenge, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, deactivation rates vary, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests active sites with varying sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy are needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, as TEOM provides detailed coke formation insights but lacks surface-level analysis. Research gaps include in situ N2O-ODHP studies over iron zeolites and the reusability of regenerated catalysts, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and higher propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalyst formulations and optimizing reaction conditions. Research directions include exploring alternative iron sources, designing catalysts with enhanced resistance to deactivation, and integrating catalyst regeneration steps into process designs. Iron impurities in steamed commercial H-ZSM-5 zeolites have been found to induce high propylene selectivity, highlighting the importance of acidity in the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less effectively than molecular oxygen. However, using pure N2O is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propene over COx, needing only 1-2 lattice oxygen for selective propane oxidation. Active sites with >2 lattice oxygen favor waste products. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are suggested for selective oxidation, lacking direct evidence.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the coordination of reactive oxygen by iron in the zeolite. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with 773 K showing slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less susceptible catalysts, and developing cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts' performance is enhanced by N2O, increasing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations, while higher concentrations decrease selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxides formation ([2]). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination ([3], [4]). However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge ([5]), exacerbated by propane's reductant role in N2O conversion ([6]). The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is complex ([7]), lacking effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime ([8]). Addressing these limitations through advanced research could enhance N2O-ODHP's practical feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, while optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering superior propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene over-oxidation to COx, aligning with reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This stoichiometric advantage favors selective propene formation over combustion reactions. Despite lower catalytic activity due to N2O's weaker re-oxidation of reduced VOx, propene selectivity remains consistent across VOx species and V2O5 nanoparticles. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles lack selectivity for ODHP with O2, highlighting N2O's unique benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species. This results in a higher catalyst reduction degree, enhancing initial propene selectivity. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity. Challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation require advanced research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, leading to spatial separation of active lattice oxygen species and reducing the surface density of active oxygen species. This effect is more pronounced for catalysts with microcrystalline V2O5. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges in N2O-ODHP, requiring strategies such as the development of catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimization of reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Strategies to address these limitations could involve advanced catalyst design, optimization of reaction conditions, and further research to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by a significant increase in selectivity while decreasing propane and oxygen conversion and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide are employed, with N2O promoting molybdenum reduction for enhanced selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, which limit practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. Research directions should focus on improving catalyst stability and reducing deactivation rates to make N2O-ODHP more feasible.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are essential for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing insights into coking. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, due to dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination can lead to coke reaction, forming COx, partially regenerating the catalyst. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition show increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which leads to carbon oxide production. This slower reoxidation process enhances propene yield. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring alternative regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, potentially improving selectivity over other oxidants by controlling catalyst oxidation state and limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to molecular oxygen (O2). This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, particularly with increased agglomerization degree and dominance of V2O5 nanocrystallites, leading to decreased propene selectivity. Research is needed to understand the nature of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O, aiming to improve catalyst performance and make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, with Fe-zeolites achieving 24% initial propene yields, matching top-performing V and Mo-based catalysts. N2O's monooxygen donation and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species are key. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, varying among Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. Advanced research is needed to address deactivation, ensuring practical implementation of N2O-ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. While TEOM coupled with GC analysis offers insights into coking and deactivation, it lacks surface-level mechanism details. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation. Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability after regeneration are needed, as these areas remain underexplored. Characterization techniques like XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption can assess catalyst reversibility post-regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and improved propylene selectivity compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown high propylene yields at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a critical challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced iron sources and incorporation methods, along with catalysts resistant to deactivation, are key research directions to make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances selectivity across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites and vanadium catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by working in a reduced state, inhibiting non-selective sites and limiting oxygen adsorption. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O isn't suitable for ODHP as it requires O2 for catalyst regeneration; without O2, catalysts deactivate quickly due to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering V/g-Al2O3 materials with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving high propene yields due to its monooxygen donor specificity and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, as seen at 773 K with slower deactivation and high N2O conversion. O2 addition significantly lowers C3H6 yields and selectivity, increasing COx production, and deteriorates performance. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms, identifying less susceptible catalysts, and developing cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. In nickel molybdate-catalyzed ODHP, N2O addition improves propylene yield and selectivity, reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low concentrations. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially addressing challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant issue, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion. The deactivation mechanism is complex, lacking effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research should focus on understanding deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene formation. Well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support achieve high propene selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for propane and propene activation, is achieved by using N2O over O2, controlling selective oxidation and combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering higher propene selectivity than O2 at similar propane conversion rates. This is due to N2O's weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The positive effect stems from reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is due to N2O's lower re-oxidation ability, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences catalyst selectivity and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) enhances propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the higher degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for lower ODP activity but also for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species is also significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The primary C3H6 selectivity is higher with N2O over a broad range of propane conversions, and consecutive C3H6 oxidation to COx is reduced. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations and make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides are employed. N2O's addition enhances propylene selectivity, reduces propane and oxygen conversion, and decreases CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O improves selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research directions could focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and understanding the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation by coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique, with its real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity with deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and reducing deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which propels carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a hurdle. Partial catalyst regeneration via N2O heating aids, but full activity needs oxygen reoxidation. Research should target stable catalysts, vanadium reduction minimization, and efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    