Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Analyze the use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), discussing its advantages in terms of propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants, the various catalysts employed in this process, and the critical challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability. Additionally, propose strategies or research directions that could address these limitations and potentially make N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The use of nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP): advantages in propylene selectivity, challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation, and the need for advanced research to overcome limitations for practical implementation.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works by limiting non-selective oxygen species formation and controlling the oxidation state of catalytic sites. The oxygen from N2O dissociation specifically oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues, making N2O-ODHP a promising but research-needing process for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), as evidenced across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active lattice oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Challenges include VOx agglomerization's impact on propene oxidation and the need for understanding oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O. Research on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts reveals a turnover frequency of propane conversion that is halved with N2O, yet propene selectivity doubles to 80% at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is proposed to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO, aiming to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke is a significant issue, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation mechanisms are complex, involving active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP (Quote [1]). However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propylene yield (Quote [2]). Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst regeneration, focusing on in situ spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Research on selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability is lacking, requiring further investigation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, have shown remarkable propylene yields at lower temperatures. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research directions include optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions to minimize coke formation and maintain activity, potentially making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites like Fe-ZSM-5. Redox metals, including vanadium and molybdenum, also show promise. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's practicality. Addressing this requires stable catalysts and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, paving the way for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's oxidation state, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, causing high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state during ODHP. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more feasible for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Reduced lattice oxygen concentration in VOx species favors propene over COx, needing only 1-2 oxygen atoms. Active sites with >2 oxygen atoms favor CO and CO2 formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O affect catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen involved in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the coordination of reactive oxygen by iron in the zeolite. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, which is mitigated by higher temperatures, as seen at 773 K with slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O, and small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx. The presence of O2 negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation, identifying less susceptible catalysts, and developing cost-effective N2O sources for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts' performance is enhanced by N2O, increasing propylene yield and selectivity at low concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance and addressing catalyst deactivation and stability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation and coke deposition limit N2O-ODHP's practicality. Research on deactivation mechanisms and developing stable catalysts could enhance this process's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species on the support, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for propane and propene activation, is facilitated by N2O over O2, controlling selective oxidation and combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting propane and propene over-oxidation. This is due to N2O's weaker oxidizing potential, reducing surface density of active oxygen in VOx species. Despite lower catalytic activity, propene selectivity is consistent across VOx species with N2O, unlike with O2. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor selective propene formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, particularly for catalysts with bulk-like V2O5 species (Quote 1, 6). This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree (Quote 1, 5). N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity (Quote 5, 11). The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity (Quote 12). Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propylene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species is also significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The use of N2O can mitigate catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address catalyst stability and deactivation include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Further research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by a study showing increased selectivity to propylene and reduced CO2 yield when 300 ppm N2O was added to the feed (Quote 2). This is attributed to N2O promoting molybdenum reduction, enhancing catalyst selectivity (Quote 7). However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 6), and catalyst deactivation. Research directions to address these limitations could focus on developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance against deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are remarkable. FeMFI zeolites face rapid deactivation by coke. TEOM, a microbalance for real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The porous structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, attributed to its reoxidation of vanadium without peroxovanadate formation, which minimizes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to prevent vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and promoting catalyst reduction, likely due to its ability to work in a more reduced state and limit non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. The oxygen from N2O dissociation specifically oxidizes propane to propene, highlighting its role in controlling catalyst oxidation state for improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over molecular oxygen (O2), observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. N2O's slower reoxidation of VOx species results in fewer active oxygen sites, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. Propene selectivity remains high until vanadium surface concentration exceeds monolayer coverage, leading to direct propane oxidation. N2O mitigates this effect compared to O2. Recent studies suggest N2O forms fewer oxygen species that contribute to COx formation. Limited data exists on the nature of active oxygen species from O2 and N2O. Further research aims to identify these species using EPR spectroscopy, focusing on VOx/MCM-41 catalysts. N2O demonstrated a turnover frequency half that of O2, yet achieved 80% propene selectivity versus O2's 50% at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), achieving initial propene yields of 24% at high temperatures, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts with O2. Fe-zeolites, activated by steam, perform notably, with N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. The varying deactivation rates suggest differing iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, diminishing propylene yield. Advanced research is essential to understand deactivation mechanisms and improve catalyst reusability. In situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy and TEOMGC can monitor coke formation and catalyst evolution under process conditions, offering insights into surface interactions and reversibility. Despite these tools, detailed in situ studies of N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst regeneration effectiveness remain unexplored areas requiring attention.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly when activated by steam, are effective catalysts in this process. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize reaction conditions to minimize coke, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Strategies include alternative iron sources, enhanced deactivation resistance, and integrated process designs for catalyst regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen significantly increases propylene yield across catalysts like iron zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based catalysts, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 production. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms, making N2O-ODHP a promising but challenging option.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, playing a role in ODHP, though less oxidizing than O2. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, enhancing selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by fully covering supports with VOx species and using N2O as an oxidant. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Reduced steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen in VOx species favors selective propane oxidation to propene over COx formation. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen participating in COx formation. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability through advanced research could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production, deteriorating FeZSM-5's performance. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore mechanisms of coke formation and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. In the ODHP process, nickel molybdate catalysts' performance is enhanced by N2O, increasing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 production at low N2O concentrations. Higher N2O levels decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate oxide catalysts' oxidation state, improving catalytic performance. The literature lacks details on catalyst deactivation and stability in N2O-ODHP, indicating a need for further research to address these limitations for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Fe-ZSM-5, a unique catalyst, excels in N2O-ODHP after severe calcination. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a major hurdle. The deactivation mechanism in N2O-ODHP is complex, lacking effective strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research should focus on elucidating deactivation mechanisms, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize catalyst longevity, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over propane combustion. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, making it a promising strategy for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering superior propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient re-oxidation of VOx species. Propene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity with nanoparticles. N2O's positive effect stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O yielding a higher degree of vanadium site reduction, which correlates with selectivity. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for higher propylene selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The use of N2O reduces the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by studies showing increased selectivity and reduced CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, benefit from N2O, which promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Strategies to address these include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction. These advancements could make N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are higher than commercial H-ZSM-5 and H-BEA, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% are notable. TEOM analysis correlates activity and deactivation, revealing faster deactivation in BEA due to its structure. MFI catalysts show slower deactivation, possibly due to their structure. Steam activation and iron species are crucial for high activity. Ex-FeZSM-5's mesopores may reduce coke blocking and improve transport, slowing deactivation. Ex-FeZSM-5's higher activity in N2O decomposition suggests increased resistance to coke deactivation. N2O activation generates atomic oxygen for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination can lead to COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, attributed to its reoxidation mechanism that avoids peroxovanadate formation, leading to less propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a key challenge. Partial regeneration is possible with N2O at high temperatures, but full activity requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, working in a more reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability issues, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene oxidation to COx. However, VOx agglomerization increases propene oxidation. Selectivity remains high with low vanadium surface concentration, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation. Research is needed on oxygen species from O2 and N2O for VOx reoxidation. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show higher propene selectivity with N2O (80%) vs. O2 (50%) at 10% propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites, matching those of V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites, specifically activated by steam, yield 24% propene at elevated temperatures, highlighting N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and the iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, catalyst deactivation by coke is a significant issue, rapidly diminishing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter suggesting sites of varying coke sensitivity. Deactivation involves reduced active sites, quality, and pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, efficiently dehydrogenates propane due to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen, enhancing iron zeolites' performance in ODHP (Quote [1]). However, coke formation rapidly deactivates these catalysts, reducing propylene yield (Quote [2]). In situ FTIR spectroscopy, complemented by TEOMGC, is essential for understanding coke deactivation and catalyst regeneration in C3H8 + N2O reactions (Quote [6]). This technique monitors carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for ODHP comprehension (Quote [7]). Research gaps exist in in situ investigations of N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability (Quote [9], [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts in this process. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and employing in situ regeneration techniques. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrate catalyst regeneration steps for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity compared to oxygen, especially with iron and vanadium catalysts. Iron-based Fe-ZSM-5 and redox metals like vanadium and molybdenum are effective. However, rapid catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing the catalyst's state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, playing a role in ODHP, though less oxidizing than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation, necessitating O2 for regeneration. N2O's role alongside O2 modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, increasing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability boosts propene selectivity, as it reduces active lattice oxygen, favoring propane oxidation to propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. The catalyst's performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures slow deactivation, with 773 K showing slower decline due to high N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx. O2 negatively impacts intermediates essential for propene production, deteriorating FeZSM-5's performance. Strategies to address deactivation include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on coke formation mechanisms and identifying less susceptible catalysts. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective, pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion, increasing propylene yield and selectivity, and reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. However, at higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity decreases, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability need further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a major issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance propene selectivity. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, achieved by using N2O, controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering superior propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This stoichiometric advantage favors selective propene formation over combustion. Despite lower catalytic activity due to N2O's weaker re-oxidation ability, propene selectivity remains consistent across different VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles lack selectivity for ODHP with O2, highlighting N2O's unique benefits. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and overcoming deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by minimizing the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. However, N2O results in lower ODP activity than O2. The nature of oxygen species also impacts COx formation, with adsorbed oxygen species considered nonselective for the ODHP reaction over certain catalysts. The redox dynamics of VOx species, studied using in-situ UV/vis analysis, reveal that N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, particularly in maintaining the high degree of reduction of vanadium species and preventing nonselective oxygen species formation. Strategies to address these limitations include developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to precisely define the nature of oxygen species originating from O2 and N2O over reduced VOx species, understand the mechanisms of oxygen species formation, and develop new catalyst formulations that can maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-Oxide are used. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and reduce deactivation, such as using more stable catalysts or optimizing reaction conditions, could enhance N2O-ODHP's feasibility. For instance, N2O's addition to NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 slightly decreases propane conversion but significantly increases propylene selectivity, indicating its role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at 723 K. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits high resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. Deactivation by coke is a major drawback, causing a rapid decrease in propene yield. The TEOM, a microbalance coupled with GC analysis, measures real-time mass changes during gas-solid reactions, correlating activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking by coke and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in direct N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP with N2O.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, attributed to its slower reoxidation of vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, poses a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration requiring oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, working in a more reduced state. Its dissociated oxygen oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials (Quote [1]). A similar effect is noted in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide (Quote [2]). The advantage of N2O stems from slower reoxidation of VOx species, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene to COx conversion (Quote [3]). VOx site activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization, affecting selectivity (Quote [6]). When V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, propene selectivity drops and propane undergoes total oxidation, less severe with N2O (Quote [8]). Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O (Quote [9]). Research is needed to understand active oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation of VOx. Prior studies on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP show a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, compared to half with N2O, but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50% at 10% propane conversion). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions is applied to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propene yields with Fe-zeolites, comparable to V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation limits performance, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. Deactivation is complex, involving active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, making iron zeolites perform well in ODHP (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation by coke (Quote 2) significantly reduces propylene yield. Advanced research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms, as TEOM provides detailed in situ coke formation insights but lacks surface-level analysis. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes (Quote 7), aiding in understanding ODHP under true process conditions. Research on selective oxidation with N2O over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability is lacking (Quotes 9 and 10).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steamed Fe-ZSM-5, achieve superior propylene yields due to enhanced catalytic performance. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as optimizing catalyst formulations and reaction conditions, are essential for practical implementation. Further research on catalyst stability and integrated process designs is needed to fully leverage N2O in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts like Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts and optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species reduction. This spatial separation favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are key for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) than N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies include optimizing temperature to reduce deactivation, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore mechanisms of coke formation and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O to nickel molybdate catalysts modifies performance: it decreases propane conversion, increases propylene yield and selectivity, and reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving performance. However, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability in N2O-ODHP require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductant role in N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is complex, with no current solution to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst life. Research into deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity (Quote 1, 2). High propene selectivity is achieved with well-dispersed vanadia species covering the support (Quote 3). Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for propane and propene activation, is facilitated by N2O over O2 (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, offering superior propene selectivity over O2 at comparable propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. This stoichiometric advantage favors selective propene formation. However, N2O's lower re-oxidation ability decreases catalytic activity compared to O2. Despite this, propene selectivity remains consistent across highly dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2 where selectivity is compromised.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) compared to oxygen (O2), due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 species. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with complex reaction schemes involving parallel and consecutive steps. Further research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The lower oxidizing ability of N2O tunes the reduction degree of VOx species, leading to spatial separation of active lattice oxygen species and reducing the surface density of active oxygen species. N2O does not produce nonselective adsorbed oxygen species, unlike O2, which can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been employed in ODHP, with the degree of polymerization of VOx species influencing their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Research directions aim to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and their role in selectivity, as well as to develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield (Quote 2). It promotes molybdenum reduction in NiMoO4, enhancing selectivity (Quotes 3, 7). N2O and -Sb2O4 both control selectivity, inhibiting non-selective sites (Quote 8). -Sb2O4 irrigates MoO3's surface with spillover oxygen, aiding oxidation (Quote 9). N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4, promoting reduction (Quote 10). Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, requiring strategies like developing stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and enhancing activity and selectivity for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than over commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Propionaldehyde yields up to 6% have been achieved. A major issue is deactivation by coke, causing a rapid decrease in propene yield. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The nature of extraframework iron species and the zeolite structure influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance may relate to its iron constitution and porous structure. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which occurs with O2 and leads to carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should target developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. The O from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to improve catalyst stability and address deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, observed over various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials. A similar effect is noted in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. The slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O reduces active lattice oxygen, suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops dramatically with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Experimental evidence is sought on oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41. A previous study on the same catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, compared to half with N2O, but with higher propene selectivity (80% vs. 50%). EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions was used to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), achieving initial propene yields of 24% at 773-798 K with steam-activated Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying coke sensitivity among active iron sites. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, site quality, or pore space accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, as noted in quote [1]. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke, mentioned in quote [2], significantly reduces propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, offers detailed insights into coke formation and catalyst deactivation, but lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism details. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation and regeneration. Despite these techniques, in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking, as is detailed research on catalyst reusability after regeneration. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites as catalysts. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke, and explore in situ regeneration techniques. Iron impurities in steamed H-ZSM-5 enhance propylene selectivity. Strategies include alternative iron sources, enhanced deactivation resistance, and integrated process designs with regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Fe-ZSM-5 excels in C3H6 production, while vanadium and molybdenum are also viable. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At higher concentrations, N2O dissociates, further promoting ODHP. N2O enables catalytic sites to operate in a reduced state, boosting selectivity. However, pure N2O leads to catalyst deactivation due to high carbon formation, necessitating molecular oxygen for regeneration. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, improving selectivity. Future research should focus on catalyst stability and the precise role of N2O in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation than with O2. Reduced active surface lattice oxygen concentration favors propene over COx, as only 1-2 oxygen atoms are needed for the former. Active sites with >2 oxygen atoms favor waste products. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance; atomic oxygen aids selective oxidation, while polyatomic oxygen contributes to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with 773 K showing slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 addition significantly decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing low-cost, selective catalysts for NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. At low N2O concentrations, propane conversion decreases, while propylene yield and selectivity increase, and oxygen consumption and CO2 yield reduce. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, enhancing catalytic performance. Further research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and stability issues for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which often results in over-oxidation and lower olefin yields. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, serve as effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive effect on nitrous oxide conversion, is a significant hurdle. Research into deactivation mechanisms and the development of more stable catalysts could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "Using N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity due to less favorable N2O decomposition compared to O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support achieve high propene selectivity by optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, crucial for selective oxidation and combustion. Replacing O2 with N2O optimizes this concentration, controlling reactions and improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less effective re-oxidation of surface VOx. Propylene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring propylene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP compared to O2, due to its lower re-oxidation ability of reduced VOx species, leading to higher catalyst reduction. Studies show up to three times higher propylene selectivity with N2O, especially with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in a higher reduction degree of VOx species, suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The critical challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be mitigated by optimizing the catalyst structure and composition to enhance stability and selectivity. Research directions should focus on understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by reduced propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide enhance this process. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, improving selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring mechanisms by which N2O inhibits oxygen adsorption, promoting reduction and controlling selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Initial propene yields over FeZSM-5 and FeBEA are significantly higher than commercial zeolites, despite similar residual activities after 400 min. Remarkable propionaldehyde yields (up to 6%) are obtained. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. Steam activation is crucial for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5, containing mesopores due to dealumination, reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition have increased resistance to coke deactivation in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit formation [3] and [5], is a key challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by limiting O2 adsorption and promoting a reduced catalyst state, which inhibits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls the oxidation rate. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the catalytic reaction. The oxygen from N2O dissociation specifically oxidizes propane to propene, showcasing its selectivity advantage over other oxidants.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2. This effect is also observed in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide. Kinetic analysis reveals slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Recent studies suggest non-lattice oxygen from O2 contributes to COx formation, unlike N2O. Research aims to identify oxygen species from O2 and N2O reoxidation of VOx/MCM-41. Prior studies on this catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, halving with N2O, yet propene selectivity increased to 80% from 50% at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions was used to identify oxygen species reactive towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), achieving initial propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2 (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003; Prez-Ramrez and Gallardo-Llamas,2004). Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003). However, coke-induced deactivation poses a significant challenge, rapidly diminishing propene yield, though regeneration in pure oxygen can restore activity (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003). Deactivation rates vary among Fe-zeolites, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest. The complex nature of deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues (Moulijn et al., 2001). Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis reveals deactivation and coking correlations, yet lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface changes, crucial for understanding ODHP. Detailed in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve 22% propylene yield, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with deactivation being slower over steam-activated zeolites. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation, and exploring alternative iron sources for enhanced resistance to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas and significantly boosts propylene selectivity across catalysts like iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based ones. Iron-based materials, notably Fe-ZSM-5, excel in propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hinders N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires advanced research for stable catalysts and understanding deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing catalytic sites, leading to a more selective reaction. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, causing high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst oxidation state, explaining improved selectivity in ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, as it reduces active lattice oxygen, favoring propane oxidation to propene over COx. Active sites with more than two lattice oxygen species promote waste product formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic oxygen contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in the zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to catalyst deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 compared to N2O. O2 addition to the C3H8+N2O mixture decreases C3H6 selectivity and increases COx. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Nickel molybdate catalysts, when doped with N2O, exhibit improved catalytic performance, with increased propylene yield and selectivity at low N2O concentrations. However, higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting promoter concentrations, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially enhancing their stability and addressing deactivation issues, making N2O-ODHP more viable for practical use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP attracts attention for its higher propylene selectivity compared to dioxygen, which over-oxidizes propane to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after severe calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a key issue, exacerbated by propane's reductant role, complicating N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are crucial for high selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, which N2O facilitates, controls selective oxidation and combustion, making it a promising oxidant for ODHP. Research should focus on catalyst stability and deactivation to advance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity but favoring propylene formation. N2O's positive effect stems from decreasing surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, favoring selective propylene production over combustion at lower densities. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference from dispersed VOx species with N2O, unlike with O2. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and overcoming deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, by limiting the re-oxidation of reduced VOx species and enhancing catalyst reduction. This is particularly effective with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O favoring propene formation over COx. Catalyst stability and deactivation remain challenges, necessitating advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), as demonstrated over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This advantage is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propene selectivity. However, N2O's lower oxidizing ability results in reduced ODP activity compared to O2. The nature of oxygen species also plays a significant role, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts such as VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for the higher propene selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Strategies for practical implementation should focus on understanding the mechanisms of oxygen species formation and their role in selectivity, as well as developing new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxides, are pivotal. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, and catalyst deactivation. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and selectivity, possibly through new catalyst development or optimizing reaction conditions. N2O's role in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites, akin to -Sb2O4, suggests synergistic effects in mixed catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The nature of these species, the zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance may relate to its porous structure and mesopores, reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport. N2O activation over iron species generates atomic oxygen, utilized for propane dehydrogenation, but recombination and desorption as O2 can lead to coke reaction and COx formation, partially regenerating the catalyst surface. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst deactivation and enhance N2O-ODHP feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity, as it reoxidizes vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike O2. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a hurdle. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, likely due to its ability to work in a more reduced state and limit non-selective oxygen species formation. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, offering higher selectivity than other oxidants. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, making it a promising strategy for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP over diverse catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and minimizing propylene oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less so with N2O. Studies suggest additional oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Experimental evidence is sought on oxygen species from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41. Prior research on VOx/MCM-41 in ODHP showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, halving with N2O, yet propene selectivity rose to 80% vs. 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions was used to identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high propylene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites, matching top performances of V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen species. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant challenge, rapidly reducing propylene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating sites of varying coke sensitivity. Catalyst deactivation is multifaceted, involving active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as a mono-oxygen donor, enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency due to iron species' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen, a key advantage in ODHP. However, iron zeolites' deactivation by coke significantly reduces propylene yield. The TEOM technique, coupled with GC analysis, effectively monitors coking and deactivation, yet lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed for real-time monitoring of carbonaceous deposits and surface changes in hydrocarbon conversion. Detailed in situ studies on N2O oxidation over iron zeolites and catalyst reusability are lacking, necessitating further research. Complementary spectroscopic studies and TEOMGC experiments can evaluate catalyst reversibility and regeneration effectiveness, as confirmed by XRD, TEM, and nitrogen adsorption analyses.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites as catalysts (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge (Quote 6). Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites have shown higher propylene yields (Quote 7), and steaming reduces deactivation by decreasing Brnsted acid sites (Quote 20). Research is needed to develop more stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize coke formation, and explore in situ regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity and offers environmental benefits by utilizing a potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron and vanadium-based ones. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Addressing this requires developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and understanding deactivation mechanisms for robust N2O-ODHP processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by working in a more reduced state, inhibiting non-selective sites and limiting the formation of non-selective oxygen species. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that can induce ODHP, albeit less oxidatively than O2. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without molecular oxygen for regeneration. N2O reduces catalysts, leading to high carbon formation. The presence of both O2 and N2O optimizes catalyst selectivity by modulating their oxidation state during ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species dispersion, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and further tuned by N2O. Reduced VOx reoxidation by N2O enhances propene selectivity. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species promote selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at high temperatures. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K due to higher N2O conversion. O2's presence drastically lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and enhancing regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher selectivity for propylene than molecular oxygen, evidenced by increased propylene yield and selectivity at low N2O concentrations. However, higher N2O levels decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance and addressing challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation. Advanced research is needed to optimize N2O concentration for enhanced propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, making N2O-ODHP a more viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, with the conversion of N2O on iron-zeolites complicated by propane. Research into deactivation mechanisms and developing more stable catalysts could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, essential for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity over O2, due to its weaker oxidizing potential, which inhibits direct propane and consecutive propene oxidation to COx. This results in lower catalytic activity but higher selectivity, attributed to reduced surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor selective propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This enhancement is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 have distinct roles in selectivity and activity. Further research is needed to tackle catalyst deactivation and stability, crucial for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over vanadia catalysts supported on alumina and silica. This advantage is attributed to N2O's ability to achieve a higher degree of reduction of vanadium species, which is crucial for high propylene selectivity and suppression of consecutive propene oxidation to CO and CO2. The nature of oxygen species also influences COx formation, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species affects their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity compared to O2, but this also reduces nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to overcome limitations in catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP a more feasible option for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion and CO2 yield decreases, indicating potential limitations. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Research directions include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, as suggested by the role of -Sb2O4 and N2O in controlling selectivity and inhibiting non-selective sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, essential for activity, lead to deactivation due to coke formation. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing the impact of zeolite structure on deactivation rates. Steam activation and iron species are critical for high catalytic activities. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and resistance to coke, focusing on Fe-zeolite structures and N2O activation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity over other oxidants, despite lower propane conversion, as it reoxidizes vanadium without forming reactive peroxovanadates, per quotes [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit formation (quotes [3] and [5]), is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, with full restoration needing oxygen (quote [8]). Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, optimizing conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and exploring efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. The oxygen from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to address catalyst stability and deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over O2, observed across various catalysts including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials (Quote [1]). A similar effect is noted in n-butane dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide (Quote [2]). The advantage of N2O stems from its slower reoxidation of VOx species, reducing active oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx (Quote [3]). Challenges arise as VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity drops dramatically when V2O5 nanocrystallites dominate, although N2O mitigates this effect (Quote [8]). Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O (Quote [9]). Further research is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 (Quote [10]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving high initial propene yields of 24% with steam-activated Fe-zeolites at 773-798 K, matching top yields from V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation significantly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying sensitivity of active iron sites to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, can result from reduced active sites, quality, or pore accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. Advanced techniques like TEOM and in situ FTIR spectroscopy are essential for understanding deactivation mechanisms, monitoring carbonaceous deposits, and surface changes. Despite these tools, the deactivation mechanism at the surface level remains unclear, and in situ studies on N2O-ODHP over iron zeolites are lacking. Research is needed to address catalyst reusability and improve understanding of the reaction under true process conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, show remarkable performance, achieving up to 22% propylene yield. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge. Strategies to address this include developing more stable catalysts and optimizing reaction conditions. Research is needed to enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation and integrate regeneration steps, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this potent greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based zeolites like Fe-ZSM-5 and vanadium-based catalysts. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O modifies catalytic performance in ODHP, reducing propane and oxygen conversion, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At >300 ppm, N2O's dissociation products play a role, suggesting its ability to induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role includes inhibiting non-selective sites and, in the presence of O2, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for better selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved on V/g-Al2O3 materials with well-dispersed VOx and further tuned by N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation compared to O2. Active sites with 1-2 lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species are suggested for selective oxidation, while polyatomic species contribute to COx formation. Direct evidence is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficiency is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the coordination of reactive oxygen by iron in the zeolite. However, coke formation significantly deactivates the catalyst, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate deactivation, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K. O2 as an oxidant yields much lower propene (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and improving regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective and selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. Adding N2O as a gas dope modifies catalytic performance, enhancing propylene yield and selectivity while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations. Adjusting promoter concentrations like N2O can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. However, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation to CO and CO2. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, but deactivation remains a challenge, affecting catalyst lifetime. Research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and develop more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by reducing active site concentration and favoring propene formation over propane conversion. Optimizing lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion. High propene selectivity is achieved by fully covering the support with well-dispersed vanadia species, avoiding non-selective oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and propene's oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propene selectivity is consistent with both dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles, unlike O2's selectivity with nanoparticles. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density in VOx, favoring propene formation over combustion at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, up to three times higher than with O2, due to its reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, enhancing catalyst reduction. This effect is pronounced with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O's oxygen species playing a crucial role in consecutive C3H6 and direct C3H8 oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also for suppressing nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of oxygen species, whether adsorbed or lattice, influences COx formation. Adsorbed oxygen species are nonselective for the ODP reaction over certain catalysts. The critical challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which can be addressed by developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions. Research directions should focus on understanding oxygen species formation mechanisms and developing new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances catalyst selectivity. Challenges include propane conversion decrease and catalyst deactivation. Research directions should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and activity, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts to mitigate deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a challenge. Extraframework iron species, generated by steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, offering real-time mass change measurements. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The more open structure of FeZSM-5 reduces pore blocking and improves reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction rather than carbon deposit formation [3] and [5], is a significant challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity [8], but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability, minimizing vanadium reduction, and developing efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and boosting catalyst reduction, as it works in a more reduced state. The O from N2O's dissociation oxidizes propane to propene. Adjusting promoter concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize the reaction. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, requiring advanced research for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O significantly enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites and vanadium oxides, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Research suggests other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Further investigation is needed on the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O over VOx/MCM-41 for improved catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O outperforms O2 as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), achieving high propene yields of 24% with Fe-zeolites at comparable levels to V and Mo-based catalysts. Fe-zeolites' effectiveness is attributed to N2O's role as a monooxygen donor and the coordination of reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation is a significant issue, rapidly reducing propene yield. Among Fe-zeolites, Fe-beta deactivates fastest, followed by Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5, with the latter indicating varying sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation involves a decrease in active sites, quality, or pore accessibility. Advanced research is needed to address these limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer rapid deactivation by coke, impacting propylene yield. TEOM coupled with GC analysis reveals deactivation and coking mass changes, yet lacks surface-level deactivation insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is proposed to monitor carbonaceous deposits and surface acidity changes, crucial for understanding deactivation. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, highlighting a research gap. Advanced in situ investigations and catalyst reusability studies are needed to address limitations and enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene yields at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly those activated by steam, have shown remarkable propylene yields over 20% at temperatures as low as 643-773 K. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge, affecting the stability and lifetime of iron zeolites. Steam activation reduces deactivation by minimizing Brnsted acid sites, which catalyze coke formation. Research directions include developing more stable catalyst formulations, optimizing reaction conditions to minimize coke, and exploring in situ regeneration techniques. Understanding the role of acidity and iron impurities in ODHP is crucial for improving catalyst performance and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, particularly with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Fe-ZSM-5 and redox metals like vanadium and molybdenum are effective. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, aiming to optimize conditions and develop more resistant catalysts for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by reducing propane and oxygen conversion, increasing propylene yield, and decreasing CO2 selectivity. At >300 ppm, N2O dissociates, providing oxygen species that induce ODHP less oxidatively than O2. N2O promotes a more reduced state in catalytic sites, enhancing selectivity. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. N2O's role includes inhibiting non-selective sites and, with O2, modulating the catalyst's oxidation state for improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, promoting spatial separation of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity is improved by well-dispersed VOx species on V/g-Al2O3 materials and further tuned by N2O's lower reoxidation ability, enhancing propene selectivity. Reduced VOx site reoxidation by N2O compared to O2 boosts propene yield. Active sites with one to two lattice oxygen favor propene over COx. Oxygen species from N2O and O2 influence catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic species contributing to COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. Its efficacy is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the iron forms in zeolite coordinating reactive oxygen for efficient dehydrogenation. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with FeZSM-5 showing slower deactivation at 773 K, linked to high N2O conversion. O2's use significantly lowers C3H6 yields and increases COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address catalyst deactivation and stability include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should explore mechanisms of coke formation and identify active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen in other oxidation reactions. Its addition modifies catalytic performance, initially decreasing propane conversion but increasing propylene yield and selectivity, while reducing oxygen consumption and CO2 yield. At higher N2O concentrations, propylene selectivity drops, and carbonaceous products form. Adjusting promoter concentration, like N2O, can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving catalytic performance and addressing challenges in catalyst stability and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and CO/CO2 formation (Quote 2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts, especially after calcination (Quote 4). However, catalyst deactivation (Quote 5) and the complex N2O conversion in the presence of propane (Quote 6) are significant challenges. The deactivation mechanism (Quote 7) and coke deposition (Quote 8) hinder catalyst lifetime. Addressing these through advanced research could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and increasing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species fully covering the support enhance selectivity, avoiding non-selective oxidation. Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration with N2O controls selective oxidation and combustion, crucial for practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propene selectivity over O2, inhibiting direct propane and propene oxidation to COx. Its weaker oxidizing potential reduces catalytic activity but enhances selectivity by lowering surface density of active oxygen in VOx species. Crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles show no selectivity difference with N2O, unlike with O2. Stoichiometrically, lower surface densities favor propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP enhances propylene selectivity by up to three times compared to O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 species. This is due to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity, with N2O offering a more favorable reaction pathway.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for the lower ODP activity but also reduces nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. The nature of oxygen species is also significant, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on developing catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and develop new catalyst formulations for high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, used in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity while reducing propane and oxygen conversion, and CO2 yield. Molybdenum reduction by N2O enhances selectivity. Challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical issues. Strategies include developing more stable catalysts with higher activity and selectivity, and optimizing reaction conditions. For instance, adding 300 ppm N2O to NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4 mixtures increases propylene selectivity by 8% and 32% respectively, while reducing propane conversion and CO2 yield. Under N2O, molybdenum in NiMoO4 works in a more reduced state, improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving up to 25% initial propylene yields at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits remarkable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The nature of these species, the zeolite host, and catalyst acidity influence deactivation. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. The TEOM technique, offering real-time mass change measurements, correlates activity and deactivation. FeZSM-5's higher deactivation resistance is tentatively linked to its iron constitution and porous structure. Dealumination in FeZSM-5 creates mesopores, reducing pore blocking and improving reactant/product transport. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by reoxidizing vanadium species without forming reactive peroxovanadates, unlike other oxidants. This slower reoxidation process enhances propene yield. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to vanadium reduction, is a significant challenge. Catalyst regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full restoration requires oxygen. Research should aim to develop stable catalysts, optimize conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and explore efficient regeneration methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, allowing catalytic sites to work in a more reduced state. This limits non-selective oxygen species formation and controls the oxidation state of the catalyst. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, making it a strategic tool for catalyst performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, vanadium oxides, and vanadium-containing materials, compared to O2. This is due to slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Selectivity remains high with isolated VOx sites and small VxOy clusters, but drops with V2O5 nanocrystallites, less pronounced with N2O. Other oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation, unlike N2O. Experimental evidence on oxygen species from O2 and N2O is limited. A study aims to identify these species over VOx/MCM-41. N2O halves the propane conversion turnover frequency but doubles propene selectivity compared to O2. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions will identify oxygen species and their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, achieving 24% propene yields at 773-798 K with Fe-zeolites, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts using O2. Fe-zeolites' efficacy is due to N2O's monooxygen donation and iron's coordination of reactive oxygen for propane dehydrogenation. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, with Fe-beta deactivating faster than Fe-silicalite and FeZSM-5. FeZSM-5's behavior suggests varying iron site sensitivity to coke. Catalyst deactivation, a complex process, involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, thanks to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, iron zeolites suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation, impacting propylene yield. Advanced in situ techniques like FTIR spectroscopy are needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and regeneration processes in C3H8 + N2O reactions. Detailed studies on catalyst reusability are lacking, highlighting a research gap. Complementary spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions could provide insights into the deactivation of iron-containing zeolites and subsequent regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering higher propylene selectivity at lower temperatures compared to traditional oxidants. Iron zeolites, particularly steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5, are efficient catalysts in this process, achieving notable propylene yields. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a critical challenge, affecting stability and lifetime. Strategies to mitigate deactivation, such as optimizing reaction conditions and developing more stable catalyst formulations, are essential for practical implementation. Advanced research is needed to explore alternative iron sources, enhance catalyst resistance to deactivation, and integrate catalyst regeneration steps into the process design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as evidenced by its performance with iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts. Iron-based catalysts, like Fe-ZSM-5, excel in C3H6 yield. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, is a critical issue. Addressing this requires catalyst stability improvements and a deeper understanding of deactivation mechanisms. Research strategies might focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to minimize coke, and engineering catalysts with enhanced resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), reducing propane and oxygen conversion while increasing propylene yield. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O-derived oxygen species contribute to the reaction, though less oxidizing than O2. N2O promotes a reduced state in catalytic sites, improving selectivity. However, pure N2O use is inadvisable due to rapid catalyst deactivation without O2 for regeneration. Research is needed to optimize N2O and O2 ratios for stable, selective ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, which favors selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity over V/g-Al2O3 materials improves with well-dispersed VOx species, further tunable with N2O. N2O's reduced reoxidation ability enhances propene selectivity, attributed to less favorable catalyst reoxidation by N2O than O2. Decreased steady-state concentration of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species favors propene over COx formation, as only one to two lattice oxygen are needed for the former. More than two lattice oxygen species favor waste product formation. Oxygen species from O2 and N2O impact catalytic performance, with atomic oxygen species favoring selective oxidation and polyatomic species participating in COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yield at 723 K. Its effectiveness is attributed to its role as a monooxygen donor and the catalyst's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation causes rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures mitigate this, with 773 K showing slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant yields significantly lower C3H6 (<5%) compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene intermediates. Strategies to address deactivation include optimizing temperature, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient regeneration methods. Research should focus on understanding coke formation and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cost-effective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a pure N2O source, enhancing practical implementation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen, based on its performance in other oxidation reactions. At low N2O concentrations, propane conversion decreases, propylene yield and selectivity increase, and oxygen consumption and CO2 yield reduce. Higher N2O concentrations decrease propylene selectivity and promote carbonaceous product formation. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, improving catalytic performance. However, challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability require further research for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, which often leads to over-oxidation and lower olefin yields. Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, but catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, exacerbated by propane's reductant role. Research into deactivation mechanisms, developing more stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to reduce coke formation is crucial for enhancing catalyst lifetime and making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity (Quote [1], [2]). High propene selectivity is achieved with fully covered vanadia species (Quote [3]). Optimizing active lattice oxygen concentration, using N2O over O2, controls selective oxidation and combustion (Quote [4]).", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, enhancing propene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and subsequent propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity due to less efficient VOx re-oxidation. Propene selectivity is consistent between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles with N2O, unlike O2's selectivity for V2O5. N2O's benefit stems from decreased surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx, favoring selective propene formation over combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP, offering up to three times higher selectivity than O2, particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. This is attributed to N2O's reduced ability to re-oxidize VOx species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. N2O minimizes direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O significantly influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species is responsible for higher propene selectivity and lower ODP activity. The nature of oxygen species is crucial, with N2O not producing nonselective adsorbed oxygen species that can catalyze nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx. Catalysts like VOx/SiO2, VOx/MCM-41, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the degree of polymerization of VOx species influences their activity for consecutive propene oxidation. The lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species is also responsible for the lower ODP activity with N2O than with O2. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with strategies focusing on advanced research to develop catalysts with controlled surface density of active oxygen species and optimizing reaction conditions to favor selective oxygen species formation. The use of N2O can mitigate issues of catalyst deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies include optimizing catalyst structure and composition, developing methods for catalyst regeneration, and exploring alternative oxidants for high selectivity and activity while maintaining catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, enhances propylene selectivity over other oxidants. It reduces propane conversion and CO2 yield, promoting molybdenum reduction for better catalyst selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, limiting practical application. Research directions focus on developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and exploring new catalysts with higher activity and selectivity. For instance, the mixture of NiMoO4 and -Sb2O4, and a palladium on Zr-Ce-O oxide, show promise. N2O's addition significantly boosts propylene selectivity, while -Sb2O4 modulates selectivity, suggesting synergistic effects. Strategies to improve catalyst stability and reduce deactivation are crucial for N2O-ODHP's feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving initial propylene yields up to 25% at high temperatures. Catalyst deactivation, due to coke formation, is a critical challenge. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing insights into coking. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have increased resistance to coke deactivation. Research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation, which promotes carbon oxide production. Catalyst deactivation, mainly due to vanadium reduction, is a key challenge. Regeneration under N2O at high temperatures can partially restore activity, but full recovery requires oxygen. Research should aim for more stable catalysts, optimized conditions to minimize vanadium reduction, and alternative regeneration techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propylene selectivity in ODHP by inhibiting O2 adsorption and increasing catalyst reduction rate, as it works in a more reduced state. The O from N2O dissociation oxidizes propane to propene, limiting non-selective oxygen species. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate selectivity, offering a strategy to optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0920-5861(03)00120-2"},
{"DOC": "N2O enhances propene selectivity in ODHP over various catalysts, including iron-containing zeolites, bulk vanadium oxides, and supported vanadium materials, compared to O2. This effect is also observed in n-butane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium magnesium oxide catalysts. Kinetic analysis reveals slower reoxidation of VOx species with N2O, reducing active lattice oxygen sites and suppressing propene's consecutive oxidation to COx. VOx sites' activity for propene oxidation increases with agglomerization. Propene selectivity remains stable below monolayer vanadium coverage, but drops significantly with V2O5 nanocrystallites, although N2O mitigates this effect. Recent studies suggest that non-lattice oxygen species from O2 contribute to COx formation more than N2O. Experimental evidence is needed to understand the nature of oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O. A VOx/MCM-41 catalyst showed a propane conversion turnover frequency of 0.016 molC3H8 mol1 V s1 with O2, and propene selectivity was 80% with N2O versus 50% with O2 at 10% propane conversion. EPR spectroscopy under controlled conditions was used to identify oxygen species from N2O and O2 and assess their reactivity towards C3H8, C3H6, and CO oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in propane ODHP, with Fe-zeolites achieving 24% initial propene yields at 773-798 K, matching top V and Mo-based catalysts. N2O's monooxygen donor property and Fe-zeolites' ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species for efficient dehydrogenation are pivotal. However, coke-induced deactivation rapidly reduces propene yield, varying among Fe-beta, Fe-silicalite, and FeZSM-5. Deactivation involves active site reduction, quality decline, and pore space accessibility issues. Advanced research is needed to enhance catalyst stability and overcome limitations for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2004.07.035"},
{"DOC": "N2O's specificity as a mono-oxygen donor enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency in ODHP, attributed to iron species coordinating reactive oxygen. However, coke formation rapidly deactivates iron zeolites, reducing propylene yield. TEOM with GC analysis effectively monitors coking-induced deactivation, though it lacks surface-level deactivation mechanism insights. In situ FTIR spectroscopy can monitor carbonaceous deposit formation and surface changes, crucial for understanding deactivation. Detailed studies on catalyst regeneration and reusability are lacking, highlighting a research gap. Complementary spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions are needed for a comprehensive understanding of the ODHP process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a promising oxidant for ODHP, offering lower operation temperatures and high propylene yields, especially with iron zeolites. Steam-activated Fe-ZSM-5 zeolites achieve up to 22% propylene yield, outperforming other preparation methods. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation is a significant challenge, with deactivation rates varying among catalysts. Steam activation reduces Brnsted acid sites, slowing deactivation. Research is needed to enhance catalyst stability, optimize reaction conditions, and explore alternative iron sources for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2004.10.020"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, offering environmental benefits by utilizing this greenhouse gas. Substituting N2O for oxygen enhances propylene yield across catalysts, notably iron-based Fe-ZSM-5 and redox metals. However, catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, limits N2O's feasibility. Research is needed to improve catalyst stability and understand deactivation mechanisms, potentially making N2O-ODHP more practical. Strategies include developing stable catalysts, optimizing conditions to reduce coke, and engineering catalysts resistant to deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.0c03999_8"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by reducing the catalyst's state, inhibiting non-selective sites, and limiting oxygen adsorption. At concentrations above 300 ppm, N2O dissociates to provide oxygen species, promoting ODHP. However, pure N2O is unsuitable due to catalyst deactivation and high carbon formation. Molecular oxygen is essential for catalyst regeneration. N2O's role, alongside O2, modulates the catalyst's oxidation state, improving selectivity. Research should focus on optimizing N2O concentration and understanding its interaction with O2 for practical ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.09.043"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity by limiting catalyst reoxidation, enhancing VOx species' spatial separation, and favoring selective oxidation over COx formation. Selectivity improves with well-dispersed VOx on V/g-Al2O3 and can be tuned with N2O. N2O's lower reoxidation ability increases propene selectivity, as it reduces active sites' oxygen, favoring propene over COx. Atomic oxygen species from N2O are linked to selective oxidation, unlike polyatomic species from O2, which promote COx formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.11.028"},
{"DOC": "N2O is a highly efficient oxidant for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) over FeZSM-5, achieving up to 25% propene yields at 723 K. The catalyst's performance is attributed to N2O's monooxygen donor specificity and iron's ability to coordinate reactive oxygen species. However, coke formation leads to rapid deactivation, reducing propene yield. Higher temperatures slow deactivation, with 773 K showing slower deactivation and higher N2O conversion. O2 as an oxidant results in significantly lower C3H6 yields compared to N2O. Small O2 additions decrease C3H6 selectivity and increase COx production, negatively impacting propene production intermediates. Strategies to address limitations include optimizing reaction temperatures, developing coke-resistant catalysts, and efficient catalyst regeneration. Research could focus on understanding coke formation mechanisms and identifying active sites less prone to deactivation. Developing cheap, selective catalysts for low-temperature NH3 oxidation to N2O could provide a cost-effective N2O source, enhancing practical implementation feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie0493863"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, shows higher propylene selectivity than molecular oxygen, as evidenced in other oxidation reactions. In nickel molybdate-catalyzed ODHP, N2O addition enhances propylene yield and selectivity, reduces oxygen consumption and CO2 yield at low concentrations, but decreases propylene selectivity and forms carbonaceous products at higher concentrations. Adjusting N2O concentration can modulate the oxidation state of oxide catalysts, potentially improving their stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(03)00103-0"},
{"DOC": "N2O as an oxidant in ODHP offers higher propylene selectivity than dioxygen, avoiding over-oxidation and carbon oxide formation (CO, CO2). Iron-zeolites, notably Fe-ZSM-5, are effective catalysts for N2O-ODHP, with superior performance after calcination. However, catalyst deactivation, exacerbated by propane's reductive nature, complicates N2O conversion. The deactivation mechanism is unclear, lacking strategies to prevent coke deposition and extend catalyst lifetime. Research into deactivation, developing stable catalysts, and optimizing conditions to minimize coke and maximize lifetime could enhance N2O-ODHP's practicality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2014.07.032"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propylene selectivity, as its decomposition is less favorable than O2 activation, reducing active sites and enhancing propene selectivity. Well-dispersed vanadia species on the support surface are key to achieving high propylene selectivity. Optimizing the steady-state concentration of active lattice oxygen, which participates in propane and propene activation, is crucial for controlling selective oxidation and combustion reactions, achieved by using N2O over O2.", "Doi": "10.1016/S0926-860X(01)00836-5"},
{"DOC": "N2O excels as an oxidant in ODHP, boosting propylene selectivity over O2 at similar propane conversion rates. Its weaker oxidizing potential inhibits direct propane oxidation and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, reducing catalytic activity but favoring propylene formation. No significant propylene selectivity difference exists between dispersed VOx and crystalline V2O5 with N2O, unlike with O2. N2O's benefit stems from lowering surface oxygen density in VOx, favoring propylene over combustion reactions at lower densities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.05.025"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) enhances propylene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP) by minimizing the re-oxidation of vanadium oxide (VOx) species, leading to a higher catalyst reduction degree. This results in up to three times higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), particularly with bulk-like V2O5 catalysts. N2O reduces direct propane combustion and consecutive propene oxidation to COx, improving initial propene selectivity. The nature of oxygen species from O2 and N2O influences selectivity and activity. Advanced research is needed to address catalyst stability and deactivation, making N2O-ODHP more practical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.11.021"},
{"DOC": "Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) offers higher propylene selectivity compared to oxygen (O2), especially over alumina- and silica-supported vanadia catalysts. This is attributed to the degree of reduction of VOx species, which is crucial for achieving high propylene selectivity. N2O's lower ability to reoxidize reduced VOx species results in a lower ODP activity but suppresses nonselective consecutive propene oxidation to COx, enhancing selectivity. Catalysts like VOx/MCM-41, VOx/SiO2, and VOx/MCM-48 have been studied, showing that the nature of VOx species and their degree of polymerization influence the catalytic performance. Microcrystalline V2O5 phases affect activity and selectivity. Catalyst deactivation and stability are critical challenges, with N2O potentially mitigating deactivation by reducing the formation of nonselective adsorbed oxygen species. Strategies to address these limitations include optimizing catalyst structure and composition for enhanced stability and selectivity, developing catalyst regeneration methods, and exploring alternative oxidants. Advanced research is needed to understand oxygen species formation mechanisms and to develop new catalyst formulations that maintain high activity and selectivity under N2O-ODHP conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp070747c"},
{"DOC": "N2O, as an oxidant in ODHP, boosts propylene selectivity over other oxidants, as evidenced by decreased CO2 yield and oxygen conversion. Catalysts like NiMoO4 + -Sb2O4 and Pd/Zr-Ce-O oxide are employed. N2O promotes molybdenum reduction, enhancing selectivity. However, challenges include decreased propane conversion and CO2 yield, limiting practicality. Addressing catalyst deactivation and stability is critical. Strategies include developing more stable catalysts, optimizing reaction conditions, and possibly inhibiting oxygen adsorption on NiMoO4 to promote reduction, as suggested by N2O's role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2004.03.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O is an efficient oxidant for ODHP over steam-activated Fe-zeolites (MFI, BEA), achieving high initial propylene yields. Extraframework iron species, generated during steam treatment, are crucial for activity. FeZSM-5 exhibits notable resistance to deactivation, unlike FeBEA, which deactivates rapidly due to coke formation. The TEOM technique correlates activity and deactivation, revealing the importance of iron species and zeolite structure. Steam activation is essential for high catalytic activities. FeZSM-5's mesopores, resulting from dealumination, reduce pore blocking and improve reactant/product transport, slowing deactivation. Highly active Fe-zeolites in N2O decomposition may have enhanced resistance to coke deactivation. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and understanding the role of iron species and zeolite structure in deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2004.02.005"},
{"DOC": "N2O's use in ODHP boosts propene selectivity by avoiding peroxovanadate formation during vanadium reoxidation, as per [1] and [2]. Catalyst deactivation, primarily from vanadium reduction, not carbon deposit, is a major hurdle [3]. Partial regeneration via N2O heating can restore activity [8]. Research should focus on enhancing catalyst stability and minimizing vanadium reduction for practical N2O-ODHP implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2015.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    