Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhance stability and recyclability in propylene production. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 supports influences VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance, with crystallization temperature affecting surface V species distribution. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability, while Mg modification reduces coke formation and enhances catalytic performance. The V/SiO2 catalyst (1:12 mass ratio) achieves superior propene yield and selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high initial propane conversion and propene selectivity, with direct co-assembly enhancing V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species. Preparation methods and synthesis strategies are crucial for forming well-defined support structures and active sites. Catalyst design can inhibit side reactions and switch off undesirable pathways, with careful control of reaction conditions and support properties. The most active catalysts exhibit STYs that are around 34 times less active than the most active Pt catalysts, indicating room for improvement in PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene, addressing industrial demand and environmental issues. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and harmful regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, overcomes these issues. Defective OH groups facilitate the formation of active ZnOx species, enhancing propene productivity by three times at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, as demonstrated in industrial conditions over 400 hours.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency, overcoming challenges such as decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and doped ceria for improved performance. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially co-producing alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Catalyst design aims to overcome decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, with the nature of the VOx phase being critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of costly, scarce, and coking-prone Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts. A new low-temperature PDH method under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) is developed to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have created a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, a novel microwave catalyst for PDH, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures. This approach effectively tackles coking and cracking issues while decreasing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and constraints in traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative PDH, necessitating lower temperatures for selectivity. Research into single-atom catalysts, adjustments to acid-base properties, and control of oxygen site ratios seeks to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts, addressing the challenges of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, meet industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional method limitations. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design enhances stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity to propene. Reductive treatment's ability to release lattice oxygen creates active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH techniques using cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a viable solution [1]. The active site isolation strategy, as seen in the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, boosts catalytic performance [3], achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius [5], highlighting its exceptional PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH using vanadium oxide catalysts emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling catalyst surface structure, particularly hydroxyl groups, to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Key challenges, notably catalyst deactivation, are being tackled through innovative design strategies. These strategies involve the use of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to enhance selectivity and minimize coke formation, crucial for commercial PDH technologies. Enhancements focus on optimizing metal-support interactions and incorporating alloying elements to improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques, notably V-based catalysts, emerge as a viable alternative. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit stability in PDH without gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing recyclability, making them suitable for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. However, coke formation during PDH hampers platinum catalyst performance and stability. Innovative strategies, including hydrogen cofeeding, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, meeting industrial needs and production challenges. Understanding the nature and origin of coke is crucial for improving catalyst performance, as it significantly affects reactivity and stability in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements make the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing PDH efficiency. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts, as evidenced by the correlation between the number of redox Cr sites and propene yield. Low acidity, as in SiBeta, promotes high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity, as in AlBeta, favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design for enhanced stability and recyclability. This evolution is vital for meeting industrial demand and adapting to global energy dynamics, affirming PDH's significance in the changing energy sector.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "PDH's evolution as a propylene production method addresses industrial demand and production limitations. Active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms remain unclear, leading to catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, aim to enhance stability and recyclability by improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing nanoparticle sintering. Smaller particles increase active sites but also lead to diverse local environments that can cause deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation focus on reducing coke formation and managing catalyst regeneration, crucial for enhancing PDH efficiency and recyclability. Understanding deactivation mechanisms is essential for designing more stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting global energy demands.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional production limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored as a solution. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues. Further research is essential to resolve these challenges and enhance PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which boost stability, recyclability, and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional oil-based cracking limitations, nonoxidative PDH techniques emerge as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies for enhanced performance and stability. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, boosting Lewis acid sites for VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with facile reduction of VO bonds, produce active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for meeting industrial demand for propylene, offering an eco-friendly route compared to oil-based processes. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts, however, face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, addresses these challenges by utilizing defective OH groups for the formation of active ZnOx species. This catalyst outperforms a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, exhibiting three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, highlighting its environmental compatibility and enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux enhance stability and recyclability. Membrane reactors with high surface area improve efficiency, while the nature of the VOx phase is critical for high alkene selectivity. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques have advanced. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts are expensive, rare, and toxic, with issues of coking and cracking, and high energy consumption. In response, researchers have innovated a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst for microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), enabling efficient propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. This novel catalyst addresses deactivation challenges, enhancing stability and recyclability, and opens new avenues for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving lattice oxygen, is pivotal in oxidative PDH, necessitating temperature control for selectivity. Research explores single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modification, and oxygen site control to improve activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhances propene activity and selectivity, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, offering environmentally friendly and cost-efficient PDH solutions that tackle deactivation issues and enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, PDH techniques utilizing abundant propane are gaining prominence. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant on Earth, show promise in PDH, as evidenced by Quote 2. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, demonstrated by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst (Quote 5), achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, with high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH, particularly in suppressing coke deposition, a key deactivation factor. Innovative design strategies aim to control catalyst surface structure under reaction conditions, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method amid growing demand and conventional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation. Promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides bolster resistance to coking, ensuring longevity and commercial viability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH presents a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, particularly VOX-SiO2 for non-oxidative PDH, exhibit superior activity and stability. Studies show that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and VOX/MCM-41 demonstrate high activity, stability, and recyclability through oxidative regeneration, underscoring their potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring efficient propylene production. Computational simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms, while recent reviews highlight the need for a systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts. The focus shifts to understanding coke's origin and nature, examining kinetic aspects of coke formation, and comparing methods to inhibit coke. Catalyst regeneration and future improvements are also discussed.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, addresses deactivation issues by enhancing catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, with ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial use in meeting increasing demand and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, underscoring the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion enhances catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, with high dispersion and redox chromium species being critical. Redox cycles between Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are essential in the oxidative pathway, significantly impacting propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity of AlBeta promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal, tackling deactivation issues to boost stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as highlighted: 'Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing key challenges in propylene production.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being tackled through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and the use of supports that promote stability and prevent agglomeration of metal nanoparticles. Alloying with promoters like Cu can elevate the energy barrier for side reactions and facilitate propylene desorption, while the addition of reducible oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying supports with alkaline promoters and incorporating metal oxides can decrease acidity, modulate dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, and enhance anti-coking capability. Adjusting reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also reduce coke formation and improve catalyst performance. These design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a crucial propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies target deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, aligning with global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternative solutions but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have toxicity concerns. Innovative strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable solution. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts address deactivation challenges, boosting stability and recyclability, thus enhancing PDH process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Innovations in catalyst design, targeting active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have significantly addressed the challenge of thermally induced deactivation, improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance through CADH, increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative for propylene production, addressing oil-based cracking's limitations. Existing Cr/Pt catalysts in PDH face toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method introduces environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment, facilitated by defective OH groups. The developed ZnOsilicalite-1 catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals enhance selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux improve efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for high alkene selectivity in VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques are advancing. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking. Direct PDH under conventional reaction mode is also energy-intensive. A novel microwave catalyst, CoSn/NC, has been developed for low-temperature PDH, significantly reducing energy consumption. This catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to combat coking, offers a new, efficient route for propane utilization at lower temperatures, revolutionizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, primarily uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, is pivotal for understanding oxidative dehydrogenation and guiding catalyst design. These advancements address the need for improved catalyst performance in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a high-propene-selectivity solution. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts combat deactivation, boosting stability and recyclability. Optimized for phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, these catalysts offer superior, eco-friendly, and cost-effective propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using shale-gas-derived propane, is a viable propylene production method addressing growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy significantly improves catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits outstanding PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity (over 97%), showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts on γ-Al2O3 are pivotal, with design strategies focusing on surface structure and hydroxyl group control to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies like optimizing metal-support interactions and using additional promoters improve robustness against coking and maintain activity at high temperatures, crucial for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for conditions, exhibit superior activity and stability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported high activity and stable PDH performance with mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, respectively, the latter showing full recoverability with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed VOX/MCM-41's superior properties, highlighting V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, an established industrial process, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying platinum with metals, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the urgent need for efficient propylene production methods. A systematic analysis of coke formation on platinum catalysts is crucial for improving reactivity and stability in PDH, significantly impacting the process's efficiency. (Quote 1) \"As one of the most important building blocks for the chemical industry, the demands of propene have dramatically increased in recent years.\" (Quote 3) \"However, there is still much room for further improvements of Pt catalysts in PDH. In particular, the coke formation during the reaction severely undermines the catalytic performance and stability.\"", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, meeting industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation challenges. These catalysts, with active ZnO clusters linked to the zeolite framework, are ideal for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a vital alternative to traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their high thermal and acid stability, are optimal for high chromium dispersion, a key factor for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly influencing propene yield. Lower acidity promotes high propene selectivity, while higher acidity encourages propane cracking. Switching operation modes between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and boosting propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, addressing key issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Pt-based catalysts are central to PDH, with active sites and dehydrogenation mechanisms critical for efficiency. Shrinking metal particles increase active sites, affecting dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation. Coordination structure and electronic states of Pt influence propylene adsorption and side reactions, leading to deactivation. Innovative strategies, such as alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, aim to enhance selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, optimizing processes for rising industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and poor regeneration, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2, lacks thermodynamic limitations but poses risks of overoxidation and lower heat formation, respectively. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates. Resolving these issues is essential for enhancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight PDH techniques, notably using supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts improve selectivity and efficiency, making PDH a viable solution in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Addressing thermally induced catalyst deactivation, recent design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Key catalyst design strategies include CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance through increased Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts, however, face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, addresses these challenges. Environmentally friendly and outperforming commercial alternatives, it achieves triple the propene productivity under industrial conditions, as demonstrated in comparative testing, making it a promising solution for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PDH can lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, enhancing efficiency. Catalyst deactivation challenges are being tackled through innovative design strategies, including supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux at dehydrogenation temperatures, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, with the VOx phase's nature critical to catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are advancing. Existing PDH catalysts, often reliant on Cr6 and Pt, are costly, scarce, or toxic, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking issues, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these challenges, researchers are developing PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach involves a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures. This innovative catalyst design, featuring cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as the support, promises enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for sustainable and efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges, particularly with Pt-based catalysts, which suffer from poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on improving selectivity and reducing byproduct formation. The MVK mechanism, which governs oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, leading to oxygen vacancies. This mechanism is crucial for understanding the context of catalyst design strategies aimed at improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, are pivotal for on-purpose production. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, releasing lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, create active sites for propane activation, crucial for improved PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, address propylene demand and production constraints. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, a spatially isolated cobalt oxide design, achieves 40% propane conversion to propene with >97% selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, highlighting its exceptional stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH using VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative strategies, like surface structure and hydroxyl group control, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method amid growing demand, addressing limitations of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like employing late transition metals and metal oxides as promoters to resist coking, are pivotal. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size ensure robust catalysts sustain high-temperature activity, crucial for PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, particularly VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2, enhances stability and recyclability. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, noted for superior stability in PDH reactions, can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, as Sokolov et al. found. Rodemerck et al. highlighted the VOX species' role in catalyst deactivation, underscoring VOX/MCM-41's commercial PDH suitability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability, with consistent propene selectivity and a slow decrease in propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which undermines platinum (Pt) catalyst performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the pressing need for propylene in a changing global energy landscape, as highlighted in recent reviews focusing on the complex reaction network and the nature of coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, effectively addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, making them cost-effective and reusable for industrial propylene production, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, forecasted to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-PDH, emerges as a viable option. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation boosts catalytic performance. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly affect propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the critical role of acidity in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing limitations of traditional processes. Catalyst deactivation challenges necessitate innovative design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability. Research is pivotal for effective development of these strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the increasing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. A key challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which is being addressed through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. Pt-based catalysts are crucial, with their geometric and electronic structures impacting propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Smaller particle sizes increase the fraction of active sites, affecting deactivation mechanisms. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include support modification, metal properties adjustment, and treatment methods, aiming to improve selectivity, stability, and reduce coke formation. Understanding these mechanisms and developing effective strategies are critical for advancing PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical propylene production method, innovating catalyst design to tackle deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability, crucial for escalating industrial demand and shifting energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts enable continuous operation, whereas alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Further research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal in meeting industrial propylene demand, innovating catalyst design to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Supported vanadium oxide exemplifies strategies boosting selectivity and efficiency, addressing catalyst challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a hurdle, but recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to boost stability and recyclability, directly tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg modification for anti-coking, enhances stability and performance. CADH for mesoporous Al2O3 and direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts improve V species interaction and dispersion. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity due to the reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. Catalyst performance is influenced by the nature of the support and preparation method, affecting the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts by a factor of 34.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, offering an environmentally friendly solution, shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, effectively addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer cogeneration potential. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, with the VOx phase critical to catalyst performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms, and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking, increasing energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) addresses these issues, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation directly responds to the need for more stable, less prone to deactivation, and recyclable catalysts in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including doping with promoters like late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to improve catalyst performance. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, forming oxygen vacancies. These strategies address the limitations of current PDH catalysts, enhancing stability and recyclability to meet industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for meeting rising propylene demand, offering high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, address deactivation issues, enhancing activity and selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging shale-gas-derived propane, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy, as demonstrated by the synthesis of spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1), significantly enhances catalytic performance. This catalyst exhibits exceptional performance for PDH, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after extended reaction periods, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods have led to propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides serve as promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies targeting surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Robust catalysts, critical for commercial success, withstand high temperatures and maintain long-term activity, using strategies like transition and rare-earth metal promoters and improved metal-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, driven by propylene demand and production limitations, are evolving with V-based catalysts like VOX/MCM-41, which, under optimal conditions, exhibit high activity, stability, and recyclability. VOX/MCM-41, in particular, demonstrates full recovery with oxidative regeneration, making V-based catalysts a promising solution for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Pt catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, challenges PDH's efficiency and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed: reductive gas cofeeding to minimize coke, Pt alloying with metals like Sn for enhanced benefits, support modifications to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size for reactivity influence, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms and the PDH reaction network, aiding in catalyst design for improved recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. This review focuses on coke formation on Pt catalysts, its kinetic aspects, and methods to inhibit it, aiming to provide a comprehensive understanding for catalyst regeneration and future improvements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO, enhances stability and recyclability. Zeolites' structured acidity disperses Zn species, reducing side reactions and creating active clusters. The resulting catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, effectively tackling deactivation issues in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes gain significance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion produces effective CO2-assisted PDH catalysts, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 shows a positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta, but a negative effect over AlBeta, highlighting the importance of acidity in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. A major challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which can be caused by side reactions leading to the formation of coke (Quote 4). Innovative design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the use of alloying and dealloying to modify the electronic properties of the catalysts, single atom catalysis to maximize active sites while minimizing side reactions, and the incorporation of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and enhance stability (Quote 50). These strategies aim to improve the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, reduce coke formation, and prevent the aggregation of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, directly responding to the challenges posed by increasing industrial demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, unlike established PtSn and CrOx systems (Quote 2, 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored as a solution, with O2 and CO2 as investigated oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke (Quote 15). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity (Quote 20). Further research is essential to address these issues and improve PDH processes (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH stands as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a pivotal development, enhance PDH efficiency and selectivity, addressing stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is a promising alternative, leveraging propane's price advantage over propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes, thereby ensuring its viability as a key propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing stability. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for catalyst design, influencing metal-support interactions. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Current Cr and Pt catalysts face issues due to Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine use for regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions, overcomes these challenges. Defective OH groups are key for active ZnOx species formation. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO catalyst shows three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, maintaining similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, PDH techniques are evolving to address limitations of conventional production. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). Innovative design strategies aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods for energy savings. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) offers a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin promotes stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, opening opportunities for high-value C3H8 resources utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, leveraging the MVK mechanism for oxidative dehydrogenation, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The reaction is kinetically controlled, requiring high temperatures for CH bond activation, and thermodynamic limitations are addressed by adding an oxidant to the reaction feed or system.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable solution for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods with high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. The monoclinic phase boosts activity and selectivity, while ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites for propane activation, crucial for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand and overcomes production constraints. Cobalt catalysts, particularly CoOx@NC/S-1, excel in PDH, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius. The active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic efficiency, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using supported vanadium oxides, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups suppress coke deposition, a major deactivation cause, enhancing stability and recyclability. Tuning hydroxyl group coverage balances activity and stability, improving performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation by employing promoters to resist coking and optimizing metal-support interactions for enhanced stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial viability amidst growing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are gaining prominence as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, optimized through gelation and calcination, exhibit superior activity, stability, and recyclability, making them ideal for commercial PDH. Notably, VOX/MCM-41 catalysts demonstrate high stability and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, showcasing the potential of V-based catalysts in overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing PDH efficiency, thus meeting the demands of a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, encounters the challenge of catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the use of reductive gases, alloying Pt with other metals, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have contributed insights into the deactivation mechanism, aiding in the development of more stable and recyclable catalysts for PDH processes. These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, addresses growing propylene demand and conventional method limitations. Zeolites enhance Zn species dispersion, reducing side reactions for cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts, ideal for industrial propylene production, tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites with high dispersion and redox chromium species, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, highlighting the role of acidity in achieving high propene selectivity. This approach boosts propene yield and improves catalyst recyclability, making PDH a sustainable and efficient route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, directly addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, reflecting the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, a critical challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, focusing on the design of active sites, understanding deactivation mechanisms, and the role of metal states in reactivity. For instance, the coordination of metal atoms can significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Moreover, the selectivity of Pt-based catalysts can be improved by controlling the electronic states of the metal atoms. Deactivation, often caused by coke formation, can be inhibited through the design of specific reaction ensembles and by tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility. Strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, modification of supports, and changes in reaction conditions. The design of catalytic systems with enhanced performance requires a deep understanding of deactivation mechanisms and the development of effective inhibition methods. These advancements in PDH catalyst design are crucial for meeting the increasing demand for propylene while improving the efficiency and sustainability of production processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and production constraints, PDH is a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5), is promising but introduces overoxidation challenges with O2 (Quote 9) and less heat and potential additional coke deposition with CO2 (Quote 12). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require addressing issues of catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key innovation, effectively combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH techniques capitalize on the price disparity between propane and propylene, emerging as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but innovative design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows superior performance, attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Support nature is crucial in catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of toxic Cr and chlorine-requiring Pt catalysts. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offers environmental compatibility and enhanced performance. ZnOsilicalite-1 outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity, highlighting its potential for improved stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing demand. Challenges include decreased alkene selectivity with temperature due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux improve efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry are crucial. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors enable cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts is a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques offer an alternative. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time. The direct PDH reaction under conventional reaction mode is also energy-intensive. To address these challenges, researchers have developed a microwave-assisted PDH method using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce coking, and carbon nitride phase as support, operates at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption. This innovation opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing the need for sustainable and cost-effective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts favored for their high activity but challenged by poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving oxygen vacancies and temperature-sensitive selectivity, is central to oxidative PDH, requiring careful temperature control to optimize product selectivity. These advancements strive to optimize catalysts for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably in the monoclinic phase, significantly boosts stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, particularly CoOx@NC/S-1 with active site isolation, demonstrate exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxides serve as effective PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge, but innovative design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are crucial for commercial PDH processes. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements further improve stability and recyclability, addressing the need for efficient catalysts in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through innovative catalyst design. V-based catalysts, like VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41, exhibit superior stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues in PDH processes. VOX/MCM-41 shows high stability without gas-phase O2 and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, making it promising for commercial PDH and addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative for large-scale production. However, PDH faces challenges with Pt catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies to mitigate deactivation include the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and aid in catalyst design and stability enhancement. These methods aim to reduce coke formation, a critical issue in PDH, ensuring improved catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, particularly using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, address catalyst deactivation challenges. These zeolites, with structured acidity, effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions and enhancing stability and recyclability. The cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are ideal for industrial propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues and boosts stability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly affecting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of acidity on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability, reflecting ongoing research efforts in response to growing demand and conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address the challenges of catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in propylene production. Strategies include alloying to modulate surface electronic structure, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions to prevent sintering. These approaches aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and maintain catalytic performance through regeneration cycles. Understanding and manipulating active sites, deactivation mechanisms, and particle size are crucial for developing efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for growing industrial demand and evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, facing challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts are limited, and alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate rapidly due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 shows promise; O2 eliminates coke and lowers temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates. Resolving these issues is crucial for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production limitations highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations in traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, stands as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, address the challenge of thermally induced catalyst deactivation, ensuring improved stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by focusing on catalyst design to overcome deactivation. Crystallization temperature impacts catalytic performance by altering surface V species in Al2O3 synthesis. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to higher V3+ species production. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, overcoming oil-based process constraints. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, environmentally friendly and formed through reductive treatment, addresses these issues. Its performance, three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions with similar propene selectivity, marks a significant advancement over conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements for dehydrogenation. Challenges remain due to temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity issues, as increasing temperature boosts alkane conversion but decreases alkene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. The design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, is also being explored. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of costly, scarce, and coking-prone Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts. A new low-temperature PDH process under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) is being developed to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have created a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. This novel microwave catalyst opens a new route for utilizing abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, directly addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and aligning with increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at high temperatures. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements target the constraints of conventional methods and the escalating global need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, notably ZrO2-based catalysts, are emerging as a viable solution. These catalysts, optimized for monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes, demonstrate superior activity, selectivity to propene, and enhanced stability and recyclability, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, address the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, particularly CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrate outstanding PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are efficient PDH catalysts, with high activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies, such as utilizing hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, targets selective dehydrogenation and minimizes coke formation, addressing deactivation challenges. Promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides enhance stability and recyclability. Optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size further improve catalyst performance, crucial for commercial PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques, particularly V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are emerging as promising alternatives. VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit high stability and recyclability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration, attributed to the stability of VOX species. VOX-SiO2 catalysts under optimized conditions maintain long-term stability, with propane conversion decreasing minimally over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains consistently high, making V-based catalysts a viable solution for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge to platinum (Pt) catalyst performance (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Quote 7), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (Quote 10). These advancements aim to address catalyst deactivation and improve the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation by enhancing activity, stability, and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, facilitate active ZnO cluster formation, boosting performance. Their low cost, non-toxic nature, and reusability make them ideal for industrial propylene production, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and nonoxidative pathways, are emerging as critical solutions. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion in CO2-assisted PDH significantly boosts propene yield through redox cycles between Cr sites. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 highlights the superior performance of Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, directly tackling the challenges in the evolving industrial landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, as highlighted in Quote [1], is a significant challenge due to unclear active site structures and mechanisms. Side reactions, as noted in Quote [4], lead to the formation of undesired products and catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, such as alloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single-atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions to prevent sintering, are being developed. As Quote [14] illustrates, single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals showed higher propylene selectivity but reduced dehydrogenation activity. Understanding and controlling these mechanisms is crucial for enhancing PDH catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing rising industrial demand and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming traditional method limitations, focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5), is promising as O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic but risks overoxidation (Quote 6). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are studied for selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 16), but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity (Quote 19) need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and constraints of traditional production methods have propelled PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby meeting industrial needs and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Catalyst design strategies, such as P modification to VOx/Al2O3 for reduced polymerization, Mg addition for anti-coking properties, and CADH for Al2O3 synthesis with enhanced Lewis acid sites, improve stability and recyclability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via co-assembly, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows superior performance, attributed to the reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability, crucial for optimal VOx species formation. These strategies enhance catalytic performance, addressing deactivation challenges and meeting the needs of a changing global energy landscape. Studies show that P modification retains high activity, Mg modification reduces coke deposits, and V/SiO2 and VOx/ZrO2 catalysts achieve high propene yields and selectivity, demonstrating the effectiveness of these design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, prepared through OH group reactions above 550C, offer an eco-friendly solution. These catalysts, leveraging defective OH groups for active ZnOx species formation, outperform conventional ones under industrial conditions, achieving three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH presents an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx catalysts' nature is critical, with challenges in propene selectivity at higher conversions. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation. Potassium minimizes the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity, and supported oxides are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Researchers are developing low-temperature PDH methods to address these issues. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, used as a microwave catalyst under MCRM, reduces energy consumption and enables high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, generating oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. These strategies aim to address deactivation issues and improve catalyst performance, supporting the development of more efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These eco-friendly, cost-efficient catalysts show high activity and olefin selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes, with monoclinic ZrO2 outperforming tetragonal ZrO2 in propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH techniques using abundant propane are emerging as a viable alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, particularly earth-abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized through a streamlined process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, notably using vanadium oxide catalysts, offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, balancing activity and stability, and enhancing recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts minimize coke formation, promoting selective dehydrogenation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are essential. Enhancements like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides boost stability and recyclability. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size further improves performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing VOX-SiO2 catalysts, address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. These catalysts, optimized for stability, demonstrate excellent performance in multiple reaction-regeneration cycles. They are reasonably priced, environmentally friendly, and stable for PDH without gas-phase O2, making them suitable for commercial processes and fully recoverable with oxidative regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies, including reductive gas cofeeding, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements aim to improve PDH efficiency and sustainability, addressing the urgent need for effective propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, converting propane directly to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by enhancing Zn dispersion and minimizing side reactions. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, create active ZnO clusters, offering cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-assisted PDH, is a viable alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts, with Beta zeolites' three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability facilitating high chromium dispersion. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the impact of acidity on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, effectively addressing industrial demands and global energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, focusing on the active sites and dehydrogenation pathways to optimize propylene production. Challenges include the formation of undesired products leading to catalyst deactivation, which can be mitigated by controlling the geometric and electronic properties of the catalysts. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance involves the inhibition of deactivation through strategies such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, the use of single-atom alloys and intermetallic compounds can improve propylene selectivity and stability. Additionally, the interaction between Pt and supports like CeO2 can enhance thermal stability and prevent sintering. These advancements in catalyst design are essential for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable solution for rising propylene demand, innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as highlighted in the quote: 'Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2, shows promise: O2 reduces coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation; CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability and recyclability, as evidenced by improved selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a promising alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on improving stability and recyclability through active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH for synthesizing high surface area Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly preparation of V/SiO2 catalysts increases interaction between V5+ species and silica support, promoting high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, due to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, influencing metal-support interactions and acid sites for VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, with the most active V-based catalysts being less active than Pt catalysts. Studies show that varying preparation methods and support types can significantly impact catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a crucial alternative for propylene production, overcoming oil-based method limitations. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, is environmentally friendly and shows three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, making it a significant advancement in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations by lowering energy requirements and enhancing efficiency through innovative catalyst design. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are developed, and proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration. Challenges include decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, necessitating careful design of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, and insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Direct dehydrogenation of lower alkanes is energy-intensive, but oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower energy requirements. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design. The role of potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts is to minimize the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. Despite extensive research, there is not yet an ODH catalyst that gives a propene yield sufficient to be attractive to industry. The heats of adsorption of alkenes on acidic sites are higher than those of the corresponding alkanes. Modification of Al2O3 with MgO supports used in the ODH of propane over VOx increases propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques are crucial, yet traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking. Seeking energy efficiency, researchers have developed a novel CoSn/NC catalyst for PDH under MCRM. This non-precious catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride as support, enables direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, offering a high-value utilization of abundant propane resources with reduced energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, refilled by O2 or CO2. Temperature control is critical for high selectivity, as the reaction is kinetically controlled with CH bond activation as the rate-determining step. Research efforts are directed at refining catalysts to balance activity and selectivity, addressing the thermodynamic limitations of PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable solution for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized catalysts, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, show superior activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, is a viable propylene production method, addressing growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, tackle deactivation issues. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts performance. A synthesized catalyst with isolated cobalt oxide sites on nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation, offering a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts for their high activity and selectivity, are evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies focus on selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation, and maintaining robustness under high temperatures, crucial for PDH processes. Controlled metal-support interactions and additional promoters further contribute to the catalyst's stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address propylene production challenges by overcoming thermodynamic constraints and reducing carbon deposition. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for enhanced activity and stability, are crucial for industrial PDH. V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports exhibit high stability and activity, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintain 91% propene selectivity over eight cycles, making V-based catalysts promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges, particularly the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene. As one of the most important building blocks for the chemical industry, the demands of propene have dramatically increased in recent years, making the on-purpose catalytic direct dehydrogenation of propane (PDH) one of the most promising and effective routes to massively produce propylene. However, there is still much room for further improvements of Pt catalysts in PDH, particularly in reducing coke formation during the reaction, which severely undermines the catalytic performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking, and address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, making PDH a promising alternative for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes demand for propylene by 2023, PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation has proven effective, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites is suitable for achieving high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of acidity on PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limits highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability through innovative design strategies are crucial, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts that address the challenges of active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms. Smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments of exposed atoms, impacting selectivity and stability. The interaction between Pt and supports, such as CeO2, can stabilize Pt nanoparticles and prevent sintering at high temperatures. The use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying supports with alkaline promoters and metal oxides can decrease acidity and modulate the dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, reducing coke formation. Adjusting reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also mitigate coke accumulation. These design strategies aim to optimize PDH catalysts for enhanced performance and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design, enhancing stability and recyclability, and aligning with rising industrial demand and evolving energy landscapes, as highlighted in the quote: 'Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH stands out as a promising alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, effectively addressing industrial needs and energy landscape changes.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts, including GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, struggle with rapid deactivation and coke deposition, falling short of PtSn and CrOx systems' practicality. Oxidative dehydrogenation, employing O2 and CO2 as oxidants, overcomes thermodynamic constraints but introduces new challenges. O2 eradicates coke and reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, whereas CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but produces less heat. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals enable selective hydrogen combustion, necessitating frequent catalyst regeneration and facing issues of low reaction rates and toxicity. Addressing these issues is critical for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes, addressing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH techniques offer a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the favorable price ratio between propane and propylene. To address the challenge of thermally induced deactivation, recent catalyst design strategies focus on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aiming to improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address propylene demand by improving catalysts. Adjusting Al2O3 crystallization temperature boosts VOx/Al2O3 performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg addition improves anti-coking capability. Direct co-assembly of V/SiO2 catalysts yields high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing active V3+ species. Support nature is critical in catalyst design, influencing metal-support interactions and acid site formation. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing oil-based cracking limitations. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst preparation method offers enhanced stability and recyclability, showing three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, as per quote [7]. This addresses deactivation challenges in PDH processes, aligning with increasing industrial demand and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements for dehydrogenation. However, challenges arise with temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx-based catalysts show promise but suffer from decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion. NiOx-based catalysts are also being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Costly, scarce, or detrimental Cr6 and Pt catalysts, prone to coking and cracking, are replaced by CoSn/NC, a microwave catalyst under MCRM. This novel approach reduces energy consumption, enabling low-temperature PDH and high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, Sn as the promoter, and carbon nitride phase as the support, effectively tackles catalyst deactivation, enhances stability, and improves recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface, is pivotal to understanding reaction pathways. Efforts to break thermodynamic limitations by adding an oxidant to the reaction feed improve PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical solution for growing propylene demand, offering high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, significantly improve PDH performance by enhancing stability and recyclability, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This highlights the importance of optimizing phase composition and crystallite size for enhanced activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrate exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600°C. Active site isolation strategies enhance catalytic performance, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides act as effective PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on surface structure control and hydroxyl group presence to suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies selectively dehydrogenate propane, minimize coke formation, and maintain activity at high temperatures. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, and metal oxides, improve resistance against coking, while optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size ensure stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH with V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 supports is a viable solution. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit superior stability and activity, crucial for industrial use. V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and VOX/MCM-41 show high activity, stability, and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting their potential for maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity in commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene highlights propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising production method. PDH, a direct route to produce propylene, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly coke formation, which undermines Pt catalyst performance and stability. Innovative strategies, including reductive gas cofeeding, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, support modification, catalyst size adjustment, and single atom catalyst exploration, aim to reduce coke formation and enhance recyclability. An updated analysis of coke formation's nature and origin is crucial for catalyst regeneration and future PDH improvements, ensuring efficiency in response to growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand by directly converting propane, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, enhances stability and recyclability. These eco-friendly and reusable catalysts improve activity, reduce side reactions, and are pivotal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as an alternative production method. Chromium-containing Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are crucial for CO2-assisted PDH, enhancing efficiency. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta, illustrating the role of acidity and catalyst design in addressing PDH challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, PDH stands as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies address catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's effectiveness in meeting industrial needs and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. As highlighted by Xiong et al., singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, demonstrating the potential of innovative catalyst design. Gong and coworkers have shown that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can increase propylene selectivity, albeit at the cost of dehydrogenation activity. Understanding and addressing the primary cause of catalyst deactivation, coke formation, is crucial for the design of more stable PDH catalysts. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to enhance catalytic performance and prolong catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, addressing deactivation issues to boost stability and recyclability, aligning with evolving global energy needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are addressing the limitations of traditional propylene production methods, particularly through tackling catalyst deactivation challenges. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising, with O2 and CO2 as key oxidants. O2 prevents coke deposition but risks overoxidation, while CO2 is milder but less heat-producing. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective oxidative dehydrogenation of paraffins, as it can overcome issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity, making the approach viable for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key innovation, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional oil-based cracking limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a promising alternative due to the price variance between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but recent design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are improving stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, such as CADH for synthesizing Al2O3, which affects catalytic performance. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared through direct co-assembly, enhance V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts, yet they show significant promise in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, outperforming oil-based methods. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face toxicity and harmful regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst design addresses these challenges, demonstrating higher propene productivity and equivalent selectivity under industrial conditions, as evidenced in comparative tests against commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts. This environmentally compatible catalyst, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms, showcases the decisive role of defective OH groups for the formation of active ZnOx species, making it a promising solution for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Despite progress, challenges remain, including the need for higher propene yields and selectivity, especially in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking. Direct PDH under conventional reaction mode is energy-intensive. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for PDH at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being highly active but facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies optimize the MVK mechanism, control oxygen sites for balanced activity and selectivity, and utilize computational methods to understand catalyst performance and screen potential candidates, directly addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and instability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity as a leading alternative. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts exhibit industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show superior performance, creating active sites crucial for propane activation upon reductive treatment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, address the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrate exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius. The active site isolation strategy enhances stability, tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, with VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts standing out due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the catalyst's surface structure to mitigate deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts notably suppress coke deposition, a critical deactivation factor, boosting performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation by minimizing coke formation and promoting selective dehydrogenation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are essential for commercial PDH. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements enhance stability and recyclability, addressing the challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids, address growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, noted by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al., exhibit high activity and stability, making V-based catalysts promising for commercial PDH, as highlighted by Rodemerck et al. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate remarkable stability through eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion and propene selectivity maintained over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. PDH, a direct dehydrogenation route, is already in industrial use but encounters challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to address this, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits (Quote 7), modifying supports to control coke (Quote 8), adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms (Quote 10). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, enhancing stability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations have led to the evolution of PDH techniques, offering direct propane-to-propylene conversion. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO clusters, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These low-cost, toxicity-free catalysts are reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand forecasted to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as an alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, offer optimal dispersion of chromium species, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, as demonstrated by increased propene yield correlating with the number of redox Cr sites. The acidity of the zeolite matrix significantly influences catalytic properties, with SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and AlBeta promoting propane cracking, highlighting the importance of catalyst design in addressing deactivation issues and enhancing efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production limitations have propelled PDH techniques as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, critical for the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are gaining prominence. Catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge, but innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, while showing superior activity and selectivity, require careful design to prevent deactivation. Smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include optimizing the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, which increase with decreasing particle size, to enhance propylene production while minimizing side reactions. Understanding active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based catalysts is crucial. Alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) are being explored to inhibit deactivation, improve selectivity, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing PDH efficiency and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH presents a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability. Specifics on design strategies, however, remain scarce, highlighting the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition and poor regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, is promising but poses risks of overoxidation. O2 eliminates coke, lowers temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, while CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. CO2 cofeeding may increase coke but can also gasify it. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration, have low reaction rates, and some are toxic, necessitating further research for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide, tackles deactivation, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a hurdle, yet recent catalyst design innovations, such as active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, aim to boost stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    