Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering efficient production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as using mesoporous Al2O3 supports synthesized through CADH, influence VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by affecting surface V species distribution. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields high concentrations of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification on VOx/Al2O3 with 12 wt% V loading shows anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, achieving propene yields of 1927% over 6 h DDH. The highest STY achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V/SiO2 catalysts (1:12 mass ratio) display optimal performance with a propene yield of 59.5% and stable selectivity of 90% over 6 h at 580 C, corresponding to a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V-DMSNs catalysts exhibit an initial propane conversion of 18.1% and propene selectivity of 91%, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, one of the highest VOx catalysts. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, shows a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, among the most active VOx-based catalysts. Preparation methods can tune the relative proportion and stability of the most active V species. The range of V-based catalyst performance varies, with the most active exhibiting STYs 34 times less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues like toxicity and harmful regeneration. An eco-friendly method introduces ZnO-based catalysts, forming active ZnOx species through reductive treatment, linked to defective OH groups. These catalysts outperform commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency challenges. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms are being explored for NiOx-based ODH catalysts. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address limitations of traditional methods using costly Cr6 and Pt catalysts prone to coking and cracking. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) operates at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption. This non-precious catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to minimize coking, supported by a carbon nitride phase, offers a new route for efficient and high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges such as poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing the catalyst deactivation challenges and meeting the increasing industrial demand for propylene in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovations in ZrO2-based catalysts, particularly the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, particularly CoOx@NC/S-1, are pivotal in PDH, offering exceptional performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius. Active site isolation strategies enhance catalytic performance, making cobalt catalysts promising for long-term utility in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, like managing surface-bound hydroxyl groups to curb coke deposition, significantly boost catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable solution. Catalyst deactivation poses a challenge, but innovative design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Tailored active sites promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation, crucial for commercial PDH. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides increase coking resistance, while optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41 are being developed to address deactivation issues, showcasing superior stability and recyclability. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate high activity and stability in PDH processes, with VOX/MCM-41 catalysts achieving full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. emphasize the role of VOX species in deactivation, highlighting V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability in non-oxidative PDH, maintaining 91% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, encounters challenges with Pt catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. Innovative design strategies, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts, are being developed to tackle these issues. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) offer insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting the challenges posed by increasing propylene demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured framework and controlled acidity, effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions. The resulting ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand for propylene of 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the need for alternatives like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, as evidenced by the correlation between the number of redox Cr sites and propene yield. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies in PDH processes, targeting stability and recyclability, address deactivation issues, aligning with industrial needs and evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. However, catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge, affecting stability and recyclability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, focusing on optimizing active sites and understanding deactivation mechanisms. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms, impacting selectivity and stability. Strategies such as alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions are being explored to inhibit deactivation, promote propylene selectivity, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. These advancements aim to enhance the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, making them more viable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable solution for growing propylene demand, innovating catalyst design to tackle deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Detailed strategies, though critical, lack comprehensive documentation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of conventional methods. PtSn and CrOx catalysts enable continuous operation but face challenges like noble metal loading and stability. Alternative catalysts, including GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, deactivate quickly due to coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address low reaction rates and toxicity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts exemplify innovative design strategies, addressing deactivation issues to enhance stability and recyclability, improving PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial viability, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, focusing on active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address propylene production challenges, focusing on catalyst deactivation through innovative design. CADH synthesizes Al2O3, where crystallization temperature impacts Lewis acid sites and surface V species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature and preparation methods are crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts, showcasing the range in performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally compatible solution. This catalyst, as demonstrated in testing, exhibits three times higher propene productivity compared to conventional catalysts, maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency through innovative catalyst design strategies. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts, necessitating careful VOx phase design. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques are evolving to address limitations of traditional methods. Costly, scarce, and toxic Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, prone to coking and cracking, have high energy consumption. New PDH methods at lower temperatures reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, offering a high-value route for abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges in propylene selectivity, deactivation, and stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with specific metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Addressing the MVK mechanism, these strategies tackle the need for lower temperatures in oxidative dehydrogenation to achieve higher selectivity, overcoming thermodynamic limitations and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, are crucial for on-purpose production. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, eco-friendly and cost-effective for non-oxidative dehydrogenation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity to propene, while its ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, address the surge in propylene demand and production constraints. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. CoOx@NC/S-1 demonstrates exceptional PDH efficiency, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, highlighting innovative strategies to overcome catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using vanadium oxide catalysts with high activity and regeneration, address propylene production demands. Innovative design strategies, like surface structure and hydroxyl group control, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability by targeting selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation, and withstanding high temperatures. Promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides fortify resistance against coking, while optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size improve performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures show superior activity and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found stable PDH properties and full recovery with oxidative regeneration for VOX/MCM-41 catalysts. Rodemerck et al. highlighted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, Pt catalysts used in PDH face challenges with coke formation, undermining performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes. There is a recognized need for an updated and systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts, highlighting the importance of understanding and inhibiting coke formation for the future of PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, enhances stability and recyclability. These optimized catalysts improve activity, reduce side reactions, and are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, meeting industrial demand and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly CO2-assisted PDH, are gaining significance as alternatives for propylene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. These advancements are crucial in meeting the increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge, is being addressed through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Pt-based catalysts, with their varying electronic states, are crucial in the conversion of propane to propylene. The fraction of active sites increases as metal particles shrink, impacting reactivity and selectivity. Strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering. Understanding and addressing these challenges is essential for advancing PDH technology in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a promising propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal, enhancing stability and recyclability, and overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts enable continuous operation but face challenges in noble metal loading, stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too fast due to coke deposition, as highlighted in Quote 3, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering temperature but risking overoxidation, as mentioned in Quote 8, and CO2 consuming H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but resulting in less heat and potential additional coke deposition, as noted in Quote 10 and Quote 11. Solid oxygen carriers, as discussed in Quote 16, and noble metals for selective hydrogen combustion are explored, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving selectivity and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH emerges as a high-value alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques for propylene production are optimized through innovative catalyst design strategies. P modification in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg addition boosts anti-coking capability, improving catalytic performance. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 reveals the impact of crystallization temperature on surface V species distribution, affecting catalytic activity. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs increases V5+ interaction with silica, boosting activity and stability. VOx/SiO2 catalyst performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures, with higher temperatures enhancing activity. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 as supports improve activity, with VOx/ZrO2 being five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 due to higher proportions of the active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature and metal-support interactions for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can adjust the stability and proportion of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand amidst energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions, offer an eco-friendly solution. These catalysts, leveraging defective OH groups for active ZnOx species, outperform commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 counterparts, tripling propene productivity at similar selectivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Existing Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Innovations aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced. Cobalt serves as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, enabling efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts due to poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues from coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. The MVK mechanism, pivotal for oxidative PDH, necessitates controlled temperatures for high selectivity. Research explores single-atom catalysts and acid-base property modifications to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts exhibit industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase showing higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for active site creation and propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, addresses rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, a synthesized catalyst, achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and shows no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques using vanadium oxide catalysts, notably VOx/γ-Al2O3, offer a viable alternative. These catalysts exhibit high activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface structure under reaction conditions, where surface-bound hydroxyl groups suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative designs. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, with tailored active sites, minimize coke formation and maintain activity at high temperatures. Promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth oxides boost robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape enhance catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address the growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. demonstrated the full recovery of VOX/MCM-41 catalysts with oxidative regeneration, showing stability in PDH without gas-phase O2. Rodemerck et al. highlighted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41, linking deactivation to VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising solution for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale production, as highlighted in quote [1]. PDH, already in industrial use (quote [2]), faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which undermines performance and stability (quote [3]). Innovative strategies are being developed to address this, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote [6]), alloying platinum with metals such as tin (quote [7]), modifying supports (quote [8]), adjusting catalyst size (quote [9]), and exploring single atom catalysts (quote [10]). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability and efficiency in PDH processes, meeting the need for more effective propylene production methods. However, there is a lack of an updated and systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH (quote [17]), which is crucial for understanding reactivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, addressing industrial demand and traditional production limitations. Innovative catalysts, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, combat deactivation, improving stability and recyclability. These cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts enhance activity and reduce side reactions, making them ideal for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a selective process for propylene synthesis. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high chromium dispersion, are optimal for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly boost propene yield, with dealumination improving catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites increases propene formation rate, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalysts in meeting industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with industrial demand and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing the issue of catalyst deactivation, which hinders the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and selectivity of PDH catalysts, reduce coke formation, and prevent the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Despite the development of metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts showing superior activity and selectivity, the fundamental understanding of active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH remains unclear. The focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts clarifies the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms. The geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, highlighting the need for design strategies that enhance stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods. Amidst rising industrial demand, innovative catalyst design strategies are essential to combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Literature recognizes the need for such strategies, underscoring their importance in the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective solution, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial viability, thermally-induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent design strategies, such as active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, significantly boost stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques for propylene production address industrial demand through innovative catalyst design. Strategies include CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ species interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, overcoming oil-based cracking's limitations. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, developed through OH group reactions, offers an eco-friendly solution. Under industrial conditions, it triples propene productivity with comparable selectivity, significantly boosting PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. However, it confronts challenges with temperature and selectivity, leading to catalyst deactivation. Innovative strategies are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability, such as evaluating supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and investigating membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Despite advancements, selectivity remains a hurdle, particularly with VOx catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under scrutiny, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 could aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, though effective, are costly, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues. Seeking energy-efficient methods, researchers are exploring low-temperature PDH. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM is developed, addressing deactivation challenges, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. This innovation opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, overcoming the energy-intensive conventional reaction mode.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and constraints in traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements address the MVK mechanism's oxygen vacancy formation and thermodynamic limitations, ensuring higher selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes, making them a viable solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative with high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, notably the monoclinic phase with smaller sizes, significantly enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues and surpassing tetragonal ZrO2 in activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, addresses rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial. Active site isolation enhances performance, as exemplified by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, achieving 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, overcoming deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods have led to the viability of PDH techniques. Vanadium oxide catalysts, key in PDH, face deactivation issues. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to prevent coke deposition, enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation via innovative design. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts are pivotal, enhancing stability and recyclability. Promoters, including late transition metals and rare-earth oxides, bolster resistance to coking, while optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size and shape improve stability and recyclability, favoring selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques using V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports, like VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2, offer a viable alternative. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the superior stability and recyclability of VOX/MCM-41, which can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, addressing deactivation issues. Rodemerck et al. underscore the commercial potential of V-based catalysts for PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit long-term stability and recyclability, as evidenced by consistent propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. As one of the most critical building blocks for the chemical industry, propene demands have significantly increased, making PDH, the direct dehydrogenation of propane, an attractive route. However, the severe challenge of catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, undermines the catalytic performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke formation, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for additional benefits, and adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane and addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO clusters, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts improve catalytic activity, reduce side reactions, and are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for meeting increasing industrial demand and overcoming deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are crucial. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with a well-established correlation between the number of redox Cr sites and propene production. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, highlighting the nuanced role of acidity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations underscore PDH's viability. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for tackling deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, ensuring sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a promising alternative. These methods convert propane to propylene, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. Key strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), which aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, with their valence states impacting reactivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, remains a significant issue. Separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity. These strategies collectively improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, making them a viable solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, optimizing PDH processes for greater efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, uses O2 and CO2 as oxidants; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures, but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques meet industrial propylene demand by innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation. Vanadium oxide catalysts, a highlighted solution, boost PDH reaction selectivity and efficiency, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation poses a challenge, yet innovative catalyst design strategies, such as active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key issues in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques for propylene production are advancing, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including P and Mg modification, reduce VOx polymerization and coke formation, enhancing stability. CADH synthesis optimizes Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 supports, affecting surface V species distribution. Co-assembly in V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, improves V5+ interaction with silica, boosting catalytic activity. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, meeting growing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. A new ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, provides an environmentally friendly solution with three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, addressing the need for stable and recyclable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, enhancing stability and recyclability in membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face limitations due to cost, scarcity, toxicity, and coking. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, operating under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), addresses these challenges by enabling efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation, with cobalt as the active site, Sn as the promoter, and carbon nitride as the support, offers a promising alternative for propylene production with enhanced stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen, is crucial in oxidative PDH, requiring lower temperatures to prevent over-oxidation of products. Understanding complex reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts remains a focus, with side reactions needing consideration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing optimized ZrO2-based catalysts, are critical for propylene production, offering high propene selectivity. These catalysts, enhanced by phase composition and crystallite size, are cost-effective and environmentally friendly, outperforming conventional options by improving activity and selectivity to propene, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH techniques using abundant propane are gaining traction. Cobalt catalysts, noted for their abundance and efficacy, are crucial in PDH processes, as highlighted in Quote 2. An innovative active site isolation strategy, mentioned in Quote 3, significantly enhances catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, as evidenced in Quote 5, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, known for their activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies focus on managing surface-bound hydroxyl groups to prevent coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Balancing hydroxyl group coverage optimizes performance, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. These advancements ensure robust catalysts for long-term activity, essential for commercial PDH technologies. Enhanced stability and recyclability are achieved through optimal metal-support interactions and additional promoters, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and aligning with increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 enhance stability and recyclability. Bai et al. demonstrated high activity and stability with mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts, while Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH performance and full recovery of VOX/MCM-41 catalysts through oxidative regeneration, highlighting the high stability of VOX species. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts show superior activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH, maintaining high propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies, including the use of reductive gases, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, are being developed to tackle coke formation. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and overcoming traditional production limitations. Computational simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, underscoring the importance of understanding and mitigating coke formation for improved PDH catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a direct propane-to-propylene conversion method, bypassing steam cracking, ideal for growing propylene demand. Innovative catalyst design, employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective and reusable, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, are gaining prominence as alternatives to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites correlating with propene yield. The acidity of zeolites plays a key role, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites facilitating high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability, meeting industrial demand and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation, a major challenge in PDH, requires innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. The fraction of active sites on Pt-based catalysts, influenced by particle size, plays a critical role in the PDH process. The valence states of Pt (Pt0 or Ptx+) significantly impact the reactivity of propane conversion, with singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 achieving 100% propane conversion (Quote [11]). Catalyst deactivation, often due to coke formation (Quote [26]), can be mitigated by controlling the interaction between intermediates and the catalyst surface, optimizing the electronic states of Pt to inhibit coke precursors, and employing strong metal-support interactions to prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles. Separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity (Quote [50]). These strategies aim to improve the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies effectively combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional production limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and regeneration inefficiencies. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, offers full paraffin conversion by combusting hydrogen. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but introduces overoxidation risks, while CO2 is milder but less heat-producing. Finding the optimal catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show promise but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity, needing further development for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, stands out as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a significant obstacle. Recent developments focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges to optimize PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for mesoporous Al2O3 synthesis, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg modification for anti-coking capability, enhance stability and recyclability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, improve V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance, while dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, due to higher V3+ species proportions. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer an environmentally friendly solution with three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, effectively addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, aiming for lower-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, marking a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. PDH, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts experiencing poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to high-temperature effects. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies address deactivation challenges, improve selectivity, and control byproduct formation, making PDH a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, highlights the need for controlled oxygen activity and metal-oxide interfaces to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are vital for propylene production, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative design strategies, particularly focusing on optimizing ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing activity and selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 are crucial for creating active sites, improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus meeting industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, meets growing propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are key in PDH, with active site isolation boosting performance. Notably, CoOx@NC/S-1 achieved 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, excelling in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, known for high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies, including surface structure control and hydroxyl group coverage, enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups notably suppress coke deposition, improving stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable solution, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites enhance selective dehydrogenation and reduce coke formation. Robust catalysts, resisting high temperatures and maintaining activity, are pivotal. Late transition and main-group metals, along with alkali and rare-earth metal oxides, boost resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, critical for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids (SiO2, Al2O3) demonstrate superior activity, stability, and recyclability. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, in particular, show high stability and can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, making V-based catalysts a viable option for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation on Pt catalysts, poses a significant challenge to PDH's efficiency and stability. Innovative strategies, such as hydrogen cofeeding, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, support modification, and adjusting Pt catalyst size, are being developed to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst performance. These advancements aim to improve recyclability and stability in PDH processes, aligning with the increasing demand for propylene and the need for sustainable production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, effectively address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability for industrial propylene production. These zeolites disperse Zn species, minimize side reactions, and make the catalysts cost-effective and reusable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance in CO2-PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the importance of acidity control in achieving optimal catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design for enhanced stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting rising demand and overcoming conventional production limits.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a critical PDH challenge, is being addressed through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include understanding active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, optimizing particle size to increase active sites while managing local environments, and leveraging electronic states to improve selectivity and prevent deactivation. Alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions are being explored to inhibit coke formation and sintering, primary causes of deactivation. Support modification, such as the addition of reducible oxides, and treatment adjustments, like hydrogen cofeeding, are also effective in improving catalyst performance and regeneration. These efforts are crucial for optimizing PDH processes in the context of evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with evolving industrial needs and energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the growing industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. PtSn and CrOx catalysts dominate PDH, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face fast deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating further research for enhanced stability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2, lacks thermodynamic limits, with O2 preventing coke formation and lowering reaction temperature but risking overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but produces less heat, potentially leading to additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are critical for growing propylene demand, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts address deactivation challenges, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving PDH process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, boosting stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, as per quote [3], is environmentally friendly and forms active ZnOx species through reductive treatment. As quote [7] indicates, this catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions with similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods through innovative catalyst design. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are explored for alkane dehydrogenation, potentially co-generating alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. The VOx phase's nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, with challenges in propene selectivity at higher alkane conversion. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by developing energy-efficient methods. Traditional catalysts based on Cr and Pt are costly, scarce, or detrimental, with issues of coking and cracking. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) at lower temperatures employs a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst. This approach opens a sustainable route for utilizing abundant propane resources with reduced energy consumption, meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing challenges like deactivation and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including metal doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies improve catalyst performance through the MVK mechanism, controlling oxygen sites to balance activity and selectivity, crucial in the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes, overcome deactivation by releasing lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amid rising propene demand and shale-gas reserves, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable propylene production method. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and promising, are crucial in PDH, as exemplified by CoOx@NC/S-1. This catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH using supported vanadium oxides emerges as a promising alternative. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhance stability and recyclability, effectively balancing activity and stability for improved PDH process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing catalyst deactivation through strategies like employing late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to resist coking. Enhancing stability and recyclability involves optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and using alloying elements, crucial for PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 supports show promise, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibiting high activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts demonstrate full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting V-based catalysts' potential in commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have led to the prominence of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, encounters the challenge of coke formation, which significantly impacts the performance and stability of platinum catalysts. Innovative strategies to mitigate catalyst deactivation include the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism, offering insights into PDH catalysts and the reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies employ high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhancing Zn dispersion, reducing side reactions, and making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites influencing propene yield. The acidity level post-dealumination impacts catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation via innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with rising industrial demand and evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals (as per Quote 14), facilitate propylene desorption and inhibit deep dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Separating active metal components, like the interaction between Pt and Cu, suppresses structure-sensitive side reactions and improves propylene selectivity. Pt/Cu single-atom alloys (SAAs), as mentioned in Quote 55, break scaling relationships and eliminate deep dehydrogenation, enhancing propylene selectivity up to 90%. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, can be mitigated through the design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation, focusing on the modification of supports, metals, and treatments to prevent sintering and leaching, and to improve regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. However, specific details on these strategies are scarce, highlighting a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and the limitations of conventional methods. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have been pivotal, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating ongoing research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, devoid of thermodynamic constraints, is being explored with O2 and CO2 as oxidants. O2 eradicates coke and reduces reaction temperatures but poses the risk of overoxidation, while CO2, a milder oxidant, results in less heat formation and may induce additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals present alternative solutions but require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts enhance stability, recyclability, selectivity, and efficiency in PDH processes, making them a promising solution in the context of increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, including the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P and Mg modifications of VOx/Al2O3, and the co-assembly process for V/SiO2 catalysts. Preparation temperature variations influence catalytic performance by affecting the distribution of surface V species and the amount of acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. The nature of the support and preparation methods are crucial for tuning the proportion and stability of the most active V species, impacting the overall performance of V-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, overcoming oil-based cracking's limitations. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration hurdles. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed via OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these issues. This catalyst, utilizing defective OH groups, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, offering an environmentally friendly solution to enhance PDH efficiency, as evidenced by comparative testing.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. It faces challenges with alkene selectivity and catalyst deactivation, which are being addressed through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Catalysts like VOx and NiOx-based ODH are being optimized for selectivity and activity. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance, while NiOx catalysts explore electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are advancing. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts are costly, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption. A novel PDH method at lower temperatures is being developed to minimize energy use, employing microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This innovative design, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin boosts stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, directly tackles the challenges of traditional catalysts, opening a pathway for efficient propane utilization at reduced temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies address the MVK mechanism, focusing on controlling oxygen sites to balance activity and selectivity, tackling deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The complex nature of PDH mechanisms and pathways, including side reactions, underscores the ongoing need for research and development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a high-propene-selectivity solution. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, address deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability. Monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes in ZrO2 outperform tetragonal ZrO2, demonstrating superior activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for PDH performance enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight PDH techniques using shale-gas propane as a solution. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, as noted in quote [2]. An innovative active site isolation strategy, as in quote [3], significantly boosts catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation, as demonstrated in a 10-hour reaction at 600 degrees Celsius (quote [5]). This exemplifies the development of catalysts that enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing supported vanadium oxides, serve as an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative design strategies focus on hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability. Tuning hydroxyl group coverage balances activity and stability, improving performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures and maintain activity, optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape for improved PDH process performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and conventional method limitations, PDH techniques using V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are explored. These catalysts exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing recyclability in commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene has spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising production method, addressing traditional limitations (Quote 1, 2). However, coke formation on platinum (Pt) catalysts significantly hinders PDH performance (Quote 3). Innovative strategies, such as hydrogen cofeeding (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like tin (Quote 7), and adjusting catalyst size (Quote 9), are being explored to reduce coke and enhance stability. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) offer insights into PDH's deactivation mechanism and emphasize the need for systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts (Quotes 11, 17). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability and tackle the challenges of growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Under precise conditions, ZnO clusters connect to the zeolite framework at sparse Al sites, creating low-cost, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts for industrial propylene production, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand for propylene of 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is becoming a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is essential for enhancing PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high dispersion of chromium species, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. This addresses the limitations of traditional methods and meets the growing industrial demand for propylene, as highlighted by the increasing significance of processes dedicated solely to propene synthesis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations have propelled PDH techniques as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, aligning with industrial needs and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. [Quote 1] highlights the need for a better understanding of active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH. [Quote 2] discusses the clarification of active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. [Quote 3] points out the impact of particle size on the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments. [Quote 4] emphasizes the structure-sensitivity of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation. [Quote 5] illustrates the increase in under-coordinated atoms as metal particles shrink. [Quote 10] introduces the impact of Pt valence states on propane conversion. [Quote 11] provides an example of high propane conversion with singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2. [Quote 14] shows that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity. [Quote 15] underlines the influence of geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states on propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. [Quote 26] notes that the primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation. [Quote 33] suggests that inhibition of deactivation is crucial for designing catalytic systems with improved performance. [Quote 50] indicates that separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions and improve propylene selectivity. [Quote 53] demonstrates the promotional effect of Cu on the catalytic performance of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for PDH. [Quote 60] describes the impact of alloying on the surface electronic structure and reactivity. [Quote 63] explains how the addition of reducible metal oxides can improve catalytic stability and selectivity. [Quote 71] suggests that changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively affect coke elimination.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial needs. It combats catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability through evolving design strategies, making it a promising alternative in the context of increasing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and the limitations of conventional methods. Catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke deposition, impedes activity recovery, as highlighted in Quote 3. Innovative design strategies are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is advantageous; O2 prevents coke deposition but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition, as noted in Quote 11. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and must address toxicity issues for industrial viability, as stated in Quote 19.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting industrial demand and adapting to changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation, a persistent issue, is being addressed through innovative design strategies that focus on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, thereby improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites through the CADH approach. P and Mg modification improve stability and anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared through direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. VOx/ZrO2 shows enhanced performance from the reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, shows three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, with similar selectivity, under industrial conditions, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for efficient dehydrogenation. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. PDH techniques aim to overcome decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion, emphasizing the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. Efforts to design efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts explore electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms, inspired by homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5. These strategies enhance stability and recyclability, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a solution. Existing PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH processes that operate at lower temperatures. A novel approach utilizes a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new, efficient pathway for propane utilization at reduced temperatures, thereby addressing catalyst deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, primarily uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies address the MVK mechanism, where reactants with reducing properties interact with catalyst surface oxygen atoms, generating oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. Understanding and optimizing this mechanism is crucial for overcoming thermodynamic limitations and improving selectivity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, enhance stability and recyclability. The monoclinic phase and the catalyst's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment create active sites, crucial for propane activation and overcoming deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand and production limitations, utilizing abundant propane. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1, show exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, overcoming deactivation issues after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, thanks to active site isolation strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH presents a viable alternative. VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, known for high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence, mitigate deactivation, enhancing stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups notably improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, ensuring better performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH is gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, addresses deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation, ensuring robustness at high temperatures. These advancements enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial PDH technologies, maintaining catalyst activity over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have led to propane dehydrogenation (PDH) using V-based catalysts as a promising solution. Studies on VOX-SiO2 and V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 by Bai et al. demonstrate enhanced activity and stability. Sokolov et al.'s research on VOX/MCM-41 catalysts shows stable PDH properties and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH applications, addressing deactivation challenges and aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene highlights propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable production method, overcoming traditional limitations. Catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, is a significant hurdle. Innovative strategies, including reductive gas cofeeding, metal alloying, support modification, catalyst size adjustment, and single atom catalyst exploration, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Computational simulations have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms, crucial for improving catalyst performance in PDH processes, meeting the growing need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, addressing rising demand. Innovative catalyst design using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supports ZnO clusters, tackling deactivation. Tailored acidity in these zeolites disperses Zn species, minimizing side reactions. The resulting ZnO catalysts enhance stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, are emerging as critical alternatives. Innovative catalysts, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion on Beta zeolites yields effective CO2-PDH catalysts. The number of redox Cr sites correlates with propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH modes reveals a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts, underscoring the importance of catalyst design in meeting industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH processes in evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the increasing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, which aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. The valence states of Pt, as highlighted in [Quote 10], significantly impact the reactivity of propane conversion. Separating active metal components, as demonstrated in [Quote 50], inhibits structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. It innovates catalyst design to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, though detailed strategies are underrepresented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts, notably metal oxides, face deactivation due to coke deposition, hindering their performance as viable PtSn and CrOx alternatives. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 presents potential solutions; O2 eliminates coke and reduces reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, like CeO2 and Pt, offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity. Further research is essential to resolve these issues and enhance PDH processes, focusing on catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective solution, leveraging propane's price edge. Addressing catalyst deactivation, a persistent issue, recent strategies focus on stability and recyclability enhancement through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. CADH synthesizes high-surface-area Al2O3, impacting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, produces active V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and overcoming limitations of toxic Cr/Pt catalysts. ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offer an environmentally friendly solution. Notably, ZnOsilicalite-1 demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, effectively tackling deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially reduce energy requirements, enhancing efficiency. However, higher temperatures decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation (Quote 1). Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, with doped ceria showing promise (Quote 11). Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed, potentially cogenerating alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy (Quote 14). Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts (Quote 22). NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms (Quote 48). Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts (Quote 52).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging. Existing PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face challenges of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with high energy consumption. To address these issues, a novel approach utilizes a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering an efficient propane utilization method at lower temperatures. This development targets deactivation issues, enhances stability, and improves recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with the need for more sustainable and energy-efficient production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies, governs oxidative dehydrogenation. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, releasing heat. However, higher selectivity requires lower temperatures, while the activation of the CH bond necessitates higher temperatures. Ongoing research focuses on refining catalysts to address these issues, ensuring PDH remains a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address production limitations. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, particularly in the monoclinic phase, overcome deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for active site creation upon reductive treatment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and shale-gas reserves highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative, utilizing abundant propane. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their performance and earth's cobalt abundance, are crucial in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing catalytic performance. The synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH with vanadium oxide catalysts offers a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, like optimizing surface-bound hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability, directly addressing deactivation issues in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. These strategies enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial viability. Robust catalysts with optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size maintain activity at high temperatures, improving resistance against coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address propylene production challenges. Mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supported catalysts show superior properties, with VOX/MCM-41 achieving full recovery through oxidative regeneration. VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability in PDH, maintaining high propene selectivity. These findings underscore the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes, effectively addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. However, catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation (Quote 3), hinders performance. Innovative strategies to mitigate deactivation include adding reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Quote 7), and adjusting catalyst size (Quote 9). These advancements aim to improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation challenges are addressed through innovative design strategies, notably ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, which enhance stability and recyclability by effectively dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making them cost-effective and toxicity-free for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst escalating industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-PDH, is gaining prominence as a sustainable production alternative. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with their high thermal stability and surface area, facilitate optimal dispersion of chromium species, essential for high catalytic performance. Redox cycles involving Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are pivotal in the oxidative pathway, with a direct correlation between the number of redox Cr sites and propene yield. Dealumination, followed by chromium dispersion, yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, demonstrating the critical role of catalyst design in addressing industrial challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative amid rising demand and conventional constraints. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, critical for PDH's effectiveness in industrial applications and adapting to evolving global energy landscapes, as highlighted in the quote.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These include understanding active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide catalysts. Smaller particles increase active sites but diversify exposed atoms, affecting selectivity. Under-coordinated atoms increase with decreasing particle size, impacting dehydrogenation. Active sites significantly influence propylene adsorption and side reactions. The first CH bond activation is rate-determining, with crucial energy barriers for cracking and dehydrogenation. Catalyst deactivation is primarily due to coke formation, covering uncoordinated active sites. Strategies to inhibit deactivation involve modifying supports, metals, and treatments. Separating active metal components inhibits side reactions, improving selectivity. Alloying impacts surface electronic structure and reactivity. Modifying supports with metal oxides improves stability and selectivity. Changes in reaction conditions, like cofeeding H2 and CO2, reduce coke formation. Strong metal-support interaction and confinement effects prevent sintering and agglomeration. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction removes coke and reactivates catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies target deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, directly tackling challenges in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition and regeneration inefficiencies, as noted in quote [2] and [3]. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic constraints, as mentioned in quote [5] and [6]; O2 reduces coke and lowers temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes hydrogen but produces less heat and may increase coke deposition. Finding the optimal catalyst-oxidant combination is key, as stated in quote [15]. Solid oxygen carriers, such as CeO2 and SbO4, offer solutions but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity, as highlighted in quote [16] and [19]. These issues need to be resolved for this approach to become viable for industrial application, as concluded in quote [20].", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing key deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, with catalyst design strategies enhancing performance. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, boosting VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, outperform VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical oil-cracking alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of toxic Cr and regeneration-dependent Pt catalysts. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions, exhibit three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, demonstrating environmental compatibility and enhanced performance, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements through oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). However, challenges arise as alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and the design of membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the design of proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes is being investigated. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, prompting the development of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under CRM. To tackle these issues, there's a push for low-temperature PDH methods to save energy. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under MCRM, has been developed. This innovation utilizes abundant propane resources efficiently at lower temperatures, with cobalt serving as the active site, tin enhancing stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride providing support, opening a new route for high-value propane utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges, particularly with Pt-based catalysts showing unsatisfactory selectivity, rapid deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving lattice oxygen in oxidative dehydrogenation, requires precise temperature control to prevent over-oxidation, emphasizing the need for advanced catalysts to improve PDH processes and manage side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand and production limitations, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design tackles deactivation by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing activity and selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase improve propene yield, while ZrO2's ability to create active Zrcus sites upon reductive treatment is crucial for propane activation, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient PDH solutions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, addresses rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are crucial in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative design for stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with high activity and selectivity, are central to PDH processes. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface structure, particularly hydroxyl groups, to suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. To combat catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are essential, incorporating promoters like late transition metals and optimizing metal-support interactions to enhance resistance against coking, ensuring long-term activity and commercial success of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques, notably using V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, are emerging. These catalysts, optimized for conditions, exhibit superior stability and recyclability, as evidenced by VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity through multiple regeneration cycles, making them a promising option for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already industrially exploited, faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene. Computational simulations based on density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex reaction network of PDH. A recent review offers a systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts, examining its kinetic aspects and comparing different methods to inhibit coke, crucial for enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene drives the evolution of PDH techniques, offering direct propane-to-propylene conversion. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements yield cost-effective, non-toxic, reusable catalysts for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes demand for propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, prompting the exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, correlating with yield up to 2wt % of Cr. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, refining PDH processes and tackling key production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. A major challenge in PDH processes is catalyst deactivation, which innovative design strategies aim to address by enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, understanding the role of particle size in increasing active sites, and the influence of geometric and electronic structures on propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Key to improving performance is the design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation, achieved through modifying supports, metals, and treatments. Understanding deactivation mechanisms and proposing effective strategies are essential for advancing PDH technology. As highlighted, the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH are crucial but not fully understood. Strategies to overcome these challenges involve clarifying active sites, pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. The impact of particle size on the diversity of exposed atoms, affecting the number of active sites, is significant. Side reactions, sensitive to structure, lead to catalyst deactivation. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as particle size decreases, which is significant for active site density. Different adsorption configurations on Pt surfaces reflect the influence of geometric sites. The impact of Pt valence states on propane conversion reactivity is noted. An example of 100% propane conversion with singly dispersed Pt on CeO2 is provided. Every Pt surface atom is active for propane dehydrogenation, but geometric and electronic states significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites. For improved performance, inhibition of deactivation is a critical requirement. Separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity. The interaction between Pt and Cu elevates the energy barrier for CC bond breaking and facilitates C3H6 desorption. Alloying with diverse promoters impacts the energies and availability of valence electrons, modulating surface electronic structure and reactivity. Alumina is highlighted as a conventional support for Pt-based catalysts, beneficial for dispersing platinum clusters and enhancing stability. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively affect coke elimination.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH innovatively addresses rising propylene demand by tackling catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for navigating global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, lacking the stability of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but poses challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, requiring catalyst regeneration and facing toxicity issues. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective PDH processes, as alternative formulations deactivate too fast due to coke deposition (Quote 3), while oxidative dehydrogenation avoids thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5) but requires careful management of overoxidation and heat. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer potential solutions but need to overcome issues like frequent regeneration and toxicity (Quote 19) to become viable for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "PDH, notably nonoxidative PDH, is a cost-effective propylene production method, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes, as highlighted by advancements in the chemical industry and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg modification for anti-coking properties, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 catalytic performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as stable supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr- or Pt-based catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, marking a significant advancement in PDH technology, as evidenced by comparative testing under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand by potentially lowering energy requirements compared to traditional methods (Quote 2). Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability (Quote 3). However, VOx catalysts face challenges with decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase (Quote 17). Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms (Quote 50). Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques are critical. Conventional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to high cost, scarcity, environmental harm, and long-term coking issues. Moreover, the direct PDH reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst addresses these issues by enabling low-temperature PDH, reducing energy consumption, and offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. This innovative approach opens a promising avenue for propylene production, enhancing stability and recyclability of catalysts in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts due to poor selectivity and rapid deactivation from coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism in oxidative PDH necessitates lower temperatures for higher selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a solution with high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design strategies address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, particularly favoring smaller sizes and the monoclinic phase over tetragonal ZrO2, significantly boosts propene selectivity, crucial for industrial non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy, as in CoOx@NC/S-1, boosts catalytic performance, achieving 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing supported vanadium oxides, meet rising propylene demand and overcome conventional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, emphasizing hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, balancing activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, address propylene production needs by minimizing coke formation. Innovative strategies, such as using late transition metals and optimizing metal-support interactions, enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for high-temperature operations and long-term activity, directly addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH using V-based catalysts on SiO2 supports, like VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2, offer a promising alternative. These catalysts exhibit high stability and recyclability, with optimized gelation and calcination temperatures enhancing activity. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirmed the high activity and stability, with Sokolov et al. demonstrating full VOX/MCM-41 catalyst recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlighted the link between VOX species and deactivation, underlining the suitability of V-based catalysts for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene highlights the significance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable production method. PDH, a key industrial process, encounters limitations due to catalyst deactivation, particularly coke formation on Pt catalysts, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies, such as reductive gas cofeeding, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, support modification, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst stability. Computational simulations using DFT provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, crucial for improving catalyst recyclability in PDH processes. These advancements address industrial needs by focusing on catalyst stability and recyclability, overcoming traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, addressing growing demand and production constraints. Innovative catalyst design, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve Zn species dispersion, minimizing side reactions, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, enhances PDH efficiency. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of catalyst design on PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations have propelled PDH techniques as a viable alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, aligning with evolving energy landscapes, as highlighted in the quote: 'PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation challenges, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the optimization of active sites, understanding deactivation mechanisms, and the impact of particle size on activity. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also expose atoms to diverse local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. The challenge of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation is being addressed through the design of catalysts with specific geometric and electronic structures that inhibit coke formation and promote propylene desorption. Additionally, the use of bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports, metals, and treatments are being explored to inhibit deactivation, with a focus on preventing coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. These approaches aim to improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes by enhancing catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Focusing on catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's effectiveness in meeting industrial needs and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke deposition, hinders activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity and reaction rate issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a promising solution. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints in traditional production, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a high-value alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. To address this, innovative design strategies have been developed, focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    