Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhance stability and recyclability, addressing challenges in propylene production. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by influencing the distribution of surface V species. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and boosts catalytic performance. The V/SiO2 catalyst (1:12 mass ratio) achieves superior initial propene yield (59.5%) and stable selectivity (90%). Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high initial propane conversion (18.1%) and propene selectivity (91%). VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Preparation methods and synthesis strategies are crucial for forming well-defined support structures and active sites. The role of other V species in the DDH reaction requires further investigation. The range of V-based catalyst performance varies, with the most active exhibiting space time yields (STYs) 34 times less active than the most active Pt catalysts. Preparation conditions significantly influence catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and oil-based process limitations. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offer an eco-friendly solution to traditional Cr/Pt catalyst issues. These catalysts, featuring active ZnOx species, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored, with the potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts, and the design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is being investigated. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a solution. Conventional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or toxic, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. The direct propane dehydrogenation reaction under conventional reaction mode is energy-intensive. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode, reduces energy consumption and opens a new pathway for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation concerns.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation, particularly with Pt catalysts due to coke formation and sintering. Innovations focus on doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, pivotal for oxidative dehydrogenation, necessitates temperature control for optimal activity and selectivity. Advanced catalyst design strategies aim to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts, addressing the thermodynamic limitations of PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address growing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, combat deactivation issues. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance propene activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, tapping into abundant shale-gas propane, meet the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and promising, are optimized for PDH, with active site isolation enhancing catalytic performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, known for high activity and selectivity, are central to PDH. Innovative design strategies, particularly controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Techniques like single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts withstand high temperatures and maintain activity, crucial for commercial PDH. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, enhancing resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 combat deactivation issues, with Bai et al. demonstrating high PDH activity and stability on mesoporous γ-Al2O3. Sokolov et al. reported stable catalytic properties for VOX/MCM-41 in non-oxidative PDH, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting its superior properties for PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showed remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production. PDH, a well-established industrial process, faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability. Innovative strategies to curb coke formation, such as the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn), modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, are being developed. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) offer insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, aiding in the design of more stable and recyclable catalysts for PDH processes. These advancements aim to address the limitations of traditional methods and meet the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, addressing industrial demand by bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability, offering a low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable solution for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand for propylene of 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is becoming a critical alternative to conventional production methods. PDH, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), is gaining prominence due to its ability to meet growing demand. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, improving catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. These methods convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms is crucial for the design of more stable catalysts, as highlighted by the need for strategies that inhibit deactivation and promote performance. The development of these strategies is essential for the advancement of PDH technology in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH is a viable alternative. Ongoing research addresses catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, with design strategies under development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering an alternative production route. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts face stability challenges, while alternative metal oxides deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5) but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation (Quotes 6, 10). Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote 15).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, nonoxidative PDH offers a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite commercial success, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits, boosting performance. Synthesis methods, such as CADH for Al2O3 and co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, increase surface area and active V species, crucial for high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with facile reduction of VO bonds, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species, showing five times greater activity than VOx/Al2O3. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. Catalyst performance is influenced by the nature of the support and preparation methods, affecting the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and ecological drawbacks. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offers an eco-friendly solution. This catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, effectively tackling deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by its performance under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of traditional methods through innovative catalyst design. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms are explored for efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to VOx-based catalyst performance. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. However, challenges remain with decreased propene selectivity at higher alkane conversion over VOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, PDH techniques are addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Conventional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Innovative design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts has been introduced. Cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, encounters challenges with Pt-based catalysts due to poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms. Efforts also consider thermodynamic limitations and the need for lower temperatures to achieve higher selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation, optimizing PDH for industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using ZrO2-based catalysts, are emerging as a key process for propene production. These catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes show higher activity and selectivity to propene, making these catalysts environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, pivotal in improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane, address the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt catalysts, noted for their abundance and effectiveness, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, demonstrating exceptional PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, critical for PDH, are enhanced through innovative design strategies that manage surface-bound hydroxyl groups, suppressing coke deposition and improving stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation issues by enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. These robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining long-term activity, are crucial for PDH's commercial success. Enhancements involve using promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to boost resistance against coking, while controlling metal-support interactions and particle size ensures improved stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, are tackling deactivation challenges by enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for performance, exhibit exceptional long-term stability and recyclability, sustaining high propane conversion rates and propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation from coke formation, significantly impacting performance (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate this issue, including the addition of hydrogen to reduce coke (Quote 6) and alloying Pt with metals like Sn (Quote 7). Adjusting the size of Pt catalysts also plays a crucial role in controlling reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the escalating need for propylene and overcoming production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These cost-effective, non-toxic, reusable catalysts improve activity and reduce side reactions, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining significance as an alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. These design strategies effectively meet industrial demands for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, tackling deactivation issues to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, effectively addressing key production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. A significant challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which is being addressed through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies focus on developing active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and employing alloying and support modifications to improve catalyst performance. For example, single-atom catalysts and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) prevent the agglomeration of metal nanoparticles, while the addition of promoters like Cu can elevate energy barriers for unwanted reactions, facilitating propylene desorption. Modifying reaction conditions, such as co-feeding hydrogen or CO2, can also reduce coke formation and maintain catalyst stability. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limits highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, aligning with global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of traditional methods by addressing catalyst deactivation. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, hindering regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored as a solution; O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures, but managing overoxidation risks is crucial. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 but results in less heat formation and may lead to additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal for effective oxidative dehydrogenation. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals for selective hydrogen combustion, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which boost stability and recyclability, as evidenced by enhanced selectivity and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, stands as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle, but recent design strategies, including active site regulation, metal-support interaction enhancement, and support modification, are addressing this issue to improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to direct co-assembly. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. The nature of the support and preparation methods are crucial in tuning the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand amidst oil-based cracking limitations. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these challenges by utilizing defective OH groups for active ZnOx species formation. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, this catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, marking a significant PDH advancement.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements, particularly through oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). However, PDH faces challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors' efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Propane dehydrogenation in proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, VOx catalysts struggle with decreased propene selectivity at higher conversions, highlighting the critical role of VOx phase nature in catalyst performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, while effective, are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, making direct PDH energy-intensive under conventional reaction mode. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst addresses these issues. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, offers a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening new avenues for high-value propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, governing oxidative dehydrogenation, necessitates lower temperatures for higher selectivity, addressing deactivation issues and improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address growing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal. Active site isolation boosts PDH catalytic performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, exemplifying superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques, notably using vanadium oxides, are emerging as viable alternatives. Innovative design strategies, focusing on hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, effectively suppress coke deposition, a key deactivation cause, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, focusing on innovative catalyst design to combat deactivation. Key strategies include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, enhancing selectivity and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size further improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH using V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports, particularly VOX-SiO2, offers superior stability and performance for propylene production, addressing growing demand and limitations of conventional methods. Studies confirm high activity and stability of V-based catalysts on Al2O3 and MCM-41, with VOX/MCM-41 fully recovering after oxidative regeneration. The relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation highlights the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintain propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple cycles, demonstrating long-term stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale production, as highlighted in quote 2. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge to PDH's efficiency and stability, as noted in quote 3. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote 6), alloying platinum with metals like tin (quote 7), modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size (quote 9), and exploring single atom catalysts (quote 10). These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and energy landscape changes. There is a recognized need for further research on coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH (quote 17), indicating ongoing efforts to improve catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts boost activity, reduce side reactions, and are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "To meet the escalating demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr species, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III), are proposed in the oxidative pathway, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-PDH, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Research focuses on overcoming catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability through innovative design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, focusing on the clarification of active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms. The challenge lies in understanding the fundamental active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve the modification of supports, metals, and treatments to inhibit the primary cause of deactivation, coke formation. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance requires the inhibition of deactivation, which can be achieved through various synthetic strategies. Pt-based catalysts, particularly those with isolated active sites and high electron density, show promise in improving propylene selectivity and stability. The use of reducible metal oxides, such as TiO2, and the modification of Al2O3 supports can enhance catalytic stability and propylene selectivity. Changes in reaction conditions, such as the cofeeding of H2 and CO2, can also positively impact coke elimination and catalyst stability. The development of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the use of confinement situations provided by supports can prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles, ensuring the longevity and efficiency of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal for addressing deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. However, detailed strategies for overcoming deactivation are under-documented, highlighting a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face challenges with fast deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces issues like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional oil-based cracking highlight nonoxidative PDH as a competitive alternative, leveraging the propane-propylene price gap. Addressing critical catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are addressing industrial demand for propylene by improving catalyst design. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, modified with P to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg for anti-coking, show enhanced stability. Direct co-assembly in V/SiO2 catalysts, such as V-DMSNs, boosts activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits high activity due to increased V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance, while Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst design, including support nature and preparation methods, is crucial for optimizing metal-support interactions and V species stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Existing Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst preparation method creates environmentally friendly catalysts, with supported ZnOx species forming through a reaction with Zn atoms above 550C, facilitated by defective OH groups. Under industrial conditions, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrated three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods through innovative catalyst design strategies. Oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) is attractive for its energy intensification advantage, but commercial ODH technologies require proper synergy between the endothermic dehydrogenation step and exothermic hydrogen combustion, as well as selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria found to be more selective than undoped ceria. The efficiency of this approach depends on the membrane type and geometry, with the membrane needing sufficiently high oxygen flux at the dehydrogenation temperature and high surface area. Cogeneration in proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors is promising, allowing the production of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy from dehydrogenation of alkanes without an oxygen feed. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, with the interaction of vanadium with the support determining the predominant VOx structure. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, with the redox property of NiOx being explored for use in the ODH of alkanes. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these issues, researchers have developed a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and a carbon nitride phase as support, opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, effectively reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form vacancies, is crucial in oxidative PDH. These advancements aim to optimize catalyst performance and meet the demands of a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, meet growing propylene demand. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase boost activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, making it effective in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, are a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with the active site isolation strategy enhancing catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1), exhibits 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Supported vanadium oxides serve as promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. These advancements ensure robust catalysts withstand high temperatures, enhancing stability and recyclability for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are gaining prominence as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids, such as SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate superior activity and stability, while V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and VOX/MCM-41 exhibit high activity, stability, and recyclability through oxidative regeneration. These advancements highlight the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "With escalating demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable production method. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly through coke formation, poses a significant challenge to its efficiency and stability. Innovative approaches are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, and adjusting Pt catalyst size. These strategies aim to reduce coke formation, thereby enhancing the performance and recyclability of PDH catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed insights into deactivation mechanisms, aiding in the design of more stable catalysts. Despite progress, a systematic understanding of coke formation on Pt catalysts remains a critical area for further research to optimize PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies employ high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, improving catalytic activity and stability by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, enhancing stability and recyclability for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, forecasted to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is pivotal, especially oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are optimal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields effective CO2-assisted PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites enhance propene yield, with dealumination impacting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These strategies enhance stability and recyclability, focusing on understanding active sites and deactivation mechanisms. Optimizing particle size increases active sites while managing deactivation, and developing Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts improves selectivity and stability. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals facilitate propylene desorption and inhibit deep dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Bimetallic compounds and modifications to supports, metals, and treatments are explored to inhibit deactivation, preventing coke formation and managing sintering. These approaches aim to improve PDH efficiency and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting rising industrial demand and adapting to global energy transitions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts are effective, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 is being explored to overcome thermodynamic limitations; O2 prevents coke formation and allows lower reaction temperatures, but requires careful control to avoid overoxidation. CO2, being a milder oxidant, results in less heat formation and may lead to additional coke deposition. Innovative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, are being developed to address catalyst regeneration and toxicity issues, which are critical for the industrial viability of these approaches.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling limitations of conventional techniques. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide, effectively combats deactivation, boosting stability and recyclability, essential for efficiency and selectivity in a dynamic industrial landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a hurdle, but innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by employing innovative catalyst design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for Al2O3 synthesis boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their properties. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, crucial for optimal catalyst performance. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offer an eco-friendly solution. These catalysts, leveraging defective OH groups, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, as evidenced in industrial tests.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy, enhance stability and recyclability. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance, while NiOx-based ODH catalysts explore electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and improving propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these challenges, a new low-temperature PDH method is sought to reduce energy use. Innovations include the CoSn/NC catalyst, a microwave catalyst that opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH uses endothermic reactions with Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges such as poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface, is crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, reactions must be conducted at lower temperatures for higher selectivity, as products easily oxidize to CO and CO2. These strategies address catalyst deactivation and selectivity issues, making PDH a viable solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, meet industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhance activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates crucial coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations for propane activation, underscoring the importance of phase composition and crystallite size in PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, is a viable alternative for meeting growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized through a two-step process, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxides, offer a viable alternative to traditional methods. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure under reaction conditions to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, thus boosting catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are critical, focusing on stability and recyclability. Key approaches include employing promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides to resist coking, optimizing metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size for enhanced robustness and longevity, essential for PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports, like mesoporous silica and γ-Al2O3, demonstrate high activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts for gelation and calcination temperatures exhibit superior stability. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirm that V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports maintain stable catalytic properties in PDH, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, making them viable for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for propylene production (Quote 2). However, the significant issue of coke formation on platinum (Pt) catalysts during PDH severely impacts catalytic performance and stability (Quote 3). To tackle this challenge, innovative design strategies are being developed, including the addition of hydrogen to propane to minimize coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the critical need for improved catalyst performance in the face of growing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production amidst growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand of 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking, illustrating the importance of acidity control in achieving optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing rising demand and production constraints. They innovatively tackle catalyst deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as highlighted by the quote: 'Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. [1] [2] [3] Understanding the active sites and dehydrogenation pathways on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. [2] Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also the diversity of exposed atoms with different local environments, which can lead to catalyst deactivation. [3] The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as metal particles shrink, affecting the dehydrogenation process. [5] Innovative design strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. Amid rising demand and conventional production constraints, further research is crucial to detail these strategies, underscoring their importance in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and catalyst deactivation challenges. Alternative catalysts, like metal oxides, face deactivation due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues. Finding a suitable catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective oxidative dehydrogenation, as indicated by the need for further research to address these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and production constraints. Notably, innovative catalyst design, such as supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing overall process performance in terms of stability, recyclability, selectivity, and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification decreases coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly of V/SiO2 catalysts strengthens V5+ interaction with silica, achieving high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 properties and performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, influencing metal-support interactions and acid site effects on VOx species. Preparation methods can adjust the proportion and stability of active V species, crucial for PDH process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed at high temperatures through a reaction with support OH groups, offers an environmentally friendly solution. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, this new catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional PDH methods, innovative techniques are being developed. Existing Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts are expensive, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. A novel approach using CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) addresses these issues by enabling low-temperature PDH, reducing energy consumption and opening new avenues for utilizing abundant propane resources. This development effectively tackles catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity and stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative PDH, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. These advancements are crucial for overcoming deactivation and improving selectivity in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the increasing industrial need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing growing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity as a major production method. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, with a focus on optimized phase composition, enhances activity and selectivity. The monoclinic phase's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is critical for creating active sites, improving PDH performance and tackling deactivation issues, thus ensuring stability and recyclability in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging shale-gas-derived propane, address the growing demand for propylene and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, as evidenced by the exceptional performance of spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1). This catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Supported vanadium oxides act as active PDH catalysts, with design strategies targeting surface-bound hydroxyl groups to curb coke deposition, thereby boosting stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To combat catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are essential. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape improve stability and recyclability, addressing the challenges of deactivation and enhancing PDH's efficiency in the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Notably, VOX-SiO2 demonstrates superior catalytic activity and stability over multiple cycles in non-oxidative PDH, while VOX/MCM-41 exhibits high stability and full recovery potential with oxidative regeneration, making it a promising option for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, an established industrial process, grapples with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to curb coke formation, encompassing the addition of reductive gases, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to bolster catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, tackling the escalating need for propylene and the shortcomings of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative design strategies, such as ZnO catalysts on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, address deactivation issues by improving activity and stability. These zeolites disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, and produce small ZnO clusters under optimal conditions. The catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With a projected demand of 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are critical for meeting industrial needs. As traditional methods struggle, PDH, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), gains prominence. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation boosts CO2-assisted PDH efficiency. The number of redox Cr sites significantly affects propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene, as demonstrated by Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts in switch operation modes between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies bolster stability and recyclability, crucial for evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation challenges, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). By improving selectivity and stability, reducing coke formation, and preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles, these approaches aim to optimize PDH catalysts. As highlighted by Xiong et al. (quote [11]), singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, demonstrating the potential of design strategies to overcome deactivation issues. Furthermore, the interaction between Pt and Cu, as shown by Gong and coworkers (quote [51]), can elevate the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitate propylene desorption, leading to higher propylene selectivity. These design strategies are crucial for enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as they address the fundamental challenges of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal to overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, making PDH a promising solution in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke, necessitating ongoing research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limits of nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, though milder, results in less heat and may increase coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P and Mg modification for VOx/Al2O3 to enhance stability and anti-coking capability, and direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, significantly improve catalytic activity. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, exhibit superior performance, making PDH processes a viable solution for propylene production. Experimental evidence supports these advancements in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative for propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative method creates eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through OH group reactions above 550C, with defective OH groups playing a critical role. The new ZnO catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. These techniques offer energy efficiency by lowering the requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high oxygen flux and surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, achieving sufficient propene yield remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Supported vanadium and molybdenum catalysts exhibit varying propene selectivity and yield, influenced by the nature of the support and the interaction with vanadium. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts, which are expensive, rare, and susceptible to coking and cracking, innovative CoSn/NC catalysts are being developed for microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This novel approach, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce coking, and carbon nitride as support, enables efficient propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. The CoSn/NC catalyst under MCRM reduces energy consumption and offers a new pathway for the high-value conversion of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts being highly active but susceptible to selectivity issues, rapid deactivation, and instability due to high-temperature effects like coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as promoter addition and carrier modification, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, pivotal in oxidative PDH, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies that can be refilled by O2 or CO2, creating a catalytic cycle. Careful temperature control is essential for high selectivity, considering thermodynamic limitations and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, focusing on phase composition and crystallite size optimization, combats deactivation issues. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance propene activity and selectivity, crucial for active site creation. Monoclinic ZrO2 outperforms tetragonal ZrO2, demonstrating superior performance in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, addresses rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH efficiency. A CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and shows no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative stability and recyclability strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, known for high activity and selectivity, are central to PDH. Innovative design strategies, focusing on surface structure control and hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential. Promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides enhance coking resistance. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape boosts stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 enhance stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for conditions, exhibit superior activity and stability, making them promising for commercial PDH. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts show stable properties and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting their potential for PDH without gas-phase O2, effectively addressing deactivation issues and improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale production. PDH, already industrialized, faces the challenge of coke formation, which severely undermines platinum catalyst performance (Quote 3). Innovative strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying platinum with metals such as tin (Quote 7), and exploring single atom catalysts (Quote 10). These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and traditional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, mitigate deactivation issues in propylene production. The zeolite's structure and acidity disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, with small ZnO clusters serving as active phases. These catalysts, low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, are promising for industrial propylene production, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving as a promising alternative. Selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal and acid stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III), are critical in the oxidative pathway. The number of redox Cr sites significantly influences propene yield, and dealumination greatly impacts catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable solution, emphasizing innovative catalyst design to combat deactivation, boost stability, and improve recyclability in processes, aligning with evolving energy needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of single-atom catalysts, which improve selectivity and reduce coke formation, as noted by Gong and coworkers (quote [55]). The incorporation of support materials that modulate the electronic properties of the catalyst, decreasing acidity and improving dispersion, is also crucial (quote [63]). Alloying with promoters impacts the availability of valence electrons, influencing reactivity and selectivity (quote [60]). Controlling reaction conditions, such as the addition of hydrogen or carbon dioxide, can help eliminate coke and maintain catalyst stability (quotes [71] and [74]). The development of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the use of confinement effects in supports like mesoporous materials and zeolites prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles, further enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability (quotes [90] and [104]). These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for improving the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes, as highlighted by the work of Avelino Corma and coworkers (quote [105]).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods. To address catalyst deactivation, a major hurdle, innovative design strategies are essential, aiming to boost stability and recyclability. While the specifics of these strategies are underexplored, their development is crucial for PDH's success in meeting growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Challenges with PtSn and CrOx catalysts, such as deactivation due to coke deposition, limit their activity and recyclability. Innovative strategies aim to enhance stability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but presents challenges like overoxidation and additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues of catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution. A comprehensive comparison of catalysts is desirable to reveal qualitative differences and develop effective alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts address deactivation issues, crucial for stability and recyclability, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a cost-effective solution, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. While thermal deactivation poses a challenge, recent catalyst design strategies, such as active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, significantly boost stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH for Al2O3 synthesis boosts VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits, improving catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to V5+ species interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid site influence on VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is an eco-friendly propylene production method, overcoming oil-based process limitations. Cr and Pt catalysts in PDH face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions under reductive treatment, addresses these challenges. Defective OH groups are crucial for active ZnOx species formation. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst outperforms traditional KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, increasing temperature boosts alkane conversion but reduces alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption. Innovative CoSn/NC catalysts in a microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) address these challenges by operating at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption, and offering a new route for efficient propane utilization, thus enhancing stability and recyclability. This novel approach opens a high-value utilization path for abundant C3H8 resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges like deactivation and poor stability, particularly with Pt-based catalysts at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism in oxidative dehydrogenation underscores the importance of temperature control to minimize byproduct formation and improve selectivity. These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in response to industrial needs and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, particularly the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and selectivity, making them industrially relevant and cost-efficient for non-oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, is a promising alternative for meeting the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, particularly the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, which features spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite. This catalyst showcases exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, exhibiting no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, thanks to an innovative active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, central to PDH, are optimized through innovative design strategies that manipulate surface-bound hydroxyl groups, effectively suppressing coke formation. This enhancement significantly boosts stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, directly addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling limitations of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, minimizes coke formation and enhances stability. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are crucial for commercial PDH, ensuring selective dehydrogenation and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable solution for rising propylene demand, addressing limitations of traditional methods. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports, such as silica and γ-Al2O3, show superior stability and recyclability. Bai et al. confirmed high activity and stability on γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. demonstrated full recovery of VOX/MCM-41 catalysts through oxidative regeneration, highlighting VOX species' resilience. These catalysts are promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative (Quote 2). However, Pt catalysts in PDH face significant challenges due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as Sn (Quote 7), and modifying catalyst supports and size (Quote 9). Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism (Quote 11). A systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on stability and recyclability, tackle deactivation issues. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, serving as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance activity and stability by dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions. These zeolites, with their structured framework and controlled acidity, make the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a critical alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites boosting propene yield. Comparing Cr-containing SiBeta and AlBeta zeolites reveals the impact of acidity on propene selectivity and propane cracking, with CO2 positively affecting propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, critical for meeting industrial demands in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include optimizing active sites to prevent side reactions, controlling particle size for balanced activity and selectivity, and using supports that inhibit coke formation and sintering. Understanding metal oxidation states and dehydrogenation mechanisms is crucial for designing selective and stable PDH catalysts. Bimetallic compounds and support modifications with promoters like Zn and Mg improve selectivity and stability. Confinement of metal nanoparticles within supports and strong metal-support interactions prevent sintering, enhancing catalyst longevity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as controlling reaction conditions and designing catalysts that facilitate propylene desorption, are essential for PDH technology advancement. [Quote 10] highlights the impact of Pt valence states on propane conversion, while [Quote 31] emphasizes the importance of insights into deactivation mechanisms for designing stable Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as highlighted in the quote: 'PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke deposition and poor regeneration capabilities. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 is being explored to surpass thermodynamic limitations; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, affecting the endothermic nature of the reaction. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions, but they require frequent regeneration and have issues with low reaction rates or toxicity. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective oxidative dehydrogenation, as it can significantly impact the reaction system's performance and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which boost stability, selectivity, and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional cracking constraints, nonoxidative PDH is a cost-effective propylene production alternative, leveraging the propane-propylene price gap. Thermal deactivation remains a hurdle, driving innovation in catalyst design. Strategies focus on active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification to boost stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address propylene demand by overcoming catalyst deactivation. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance is enhanced by optimizing crystallization temperature, affecting Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification aids anti-coking and boosts catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures significantly impact VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 outperforms VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is critical in catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, prepared through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, offers higher propene productivity and environmental compatibility. This catalyst outperforms conventional ones, demonstrating about three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, as identified in quote [7].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations by potentially lowering energy requirements (Quote 2). Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and doped ceria for enhanced selectivity, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and improving stability and recyclability (Quote 3). The role of potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts is to minimize the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity (Quote 6). Despite extensive research, there is no ODH catalyst with a sufficient propene yield for industry (Quote 17). Alkene selectivity increases with decreasing Lewis acidity of the metal ions (Quote 43).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and prone to coking and cracking over time. Direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is also energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH processes at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach involves using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts as microwave catalysts under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which could open new avenues for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at reduced temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, where reactants interact with oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface, is central to these processes. The addition of an oxidant helps overcome thermodynamic limitations but requires temperature control for high selectivity. The activation of the CH bond in propane necessitates high temperatures, underscoring the need for stable and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address limitations in traditional propylene production by tackling catalyst deactivation. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability. These advancements make the catalysts industrially relevant and cost-efficient, positioning them as a promising solution for PDH processes amid growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, address industrial demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal, especially with active site isolation strategies. A catalyst featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite demonstrates exceptional PDH performance: 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative design to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH using vanadium oxide catalysts emerges as a viable alternative, offering high activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the catalyst's surface structure, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which enhance stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. This improves recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, and metal oxides fortify resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape boosts performance, ensuring commercial viability and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Notably, V-based catalysts, such as VOX-SiO2, demonstrate superior activity and stability, addressing deactivation issues. These catalysts, supported on SiO2, maintain propane conversion and propene selectivity through eight cycles, showcasing high stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production. However, PDH faces significant challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke formation, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for additional benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the growing need for propylene in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalysts, like high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, enhance stability and recyclability, improving activity and reducing side reactions, making them cost-effective and ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, notably CO2-assisted PDH, are emerging as key solutions. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues and boosts stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high chromium dispersion, are optimal for CO2-PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly enhance propene yield, with dealumination proving crucial for catalytic properties. The acidity of SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, whereas AlBeta's higher acidity promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching PDH modes with and without CO2 showcases the positive impact on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, aligning with global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the growing demand for propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. These strategies focus on understanding active sites and deactivation mechanisms, the impact of particle size on deactivation, and the development of design approaches to improve selectivity and stability. Smaller particles increase active sites but also diversify exposed atoms, leading to structure-sensitive side reactions that cause deactivation. Design strategies aim to reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance overall efficiency and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting industrial demand and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for meeting industrial propylene demand but face catalyst deactivation and stability issues. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts, though advanced, suffer from deactivation. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 and CO2 is explored to overcome thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is key. Alternative solutions, like solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, show promise but require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and conventional limitations. Vanadium oxide catalysts effectively tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, optimizing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a favorable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. While thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge, recent design strategies, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V-DMSNs exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows five times higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to the production of active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, crucial for catalyst design. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for meeting growing propylene demand, with traditional Cr and Pt catalysts presenting toxicity and ecological issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts offer an environmentally friendly alternative, forming ZnOx species through reductive treatment. These catalysts, with a focus on defective OH groups, triple propene productivity compared to KCrOx/Al2O3, showcasing their potential to enhance PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency, particularly through oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) which leverages the synergy of endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic hydrogen combustion. Catalyst deactivation challenges are being addressed through innovative design strategies, including the use of supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and the creation of membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx-based catalysts' performance is critical, with the nature of the VOx phase impacting selectivity. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, or toxic, and suffer from coking and cracking, consuming high energy under standard conditions. Researchers are exploring low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel approach uses a non-precious CoSn/NC microwave catalyst, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, enabling efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation addresses the challenges of traditional catalysts and opens a new route for high-value propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based ones facing issues of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, is crucial for understanding oxidative dehydrogenation. To overcome thermodynamic limitations and achieve higher selectivity, reactions must be carried out at lower temperatures. These strategies aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve selectivity through the control of oxygen sites and metal-oxide interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, meet industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 increase activity and propene selectivity, addressing deactivation issues. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and shale-gas reserves have spotlighted PDH as a viable propylene production method, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts for their earth abundance and effectiveness. An innovative active site isolation strategy, as seen in the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with exceptional stability, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides emerge as promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies targeting surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable solution. Catalyst deactivation is a key challenge, prompting the development of innovative design strategies. These include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with optimized active sites, enhancing selective dehydrogenation and reducing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH. Strategies like enhancing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and incorporating alloying elements improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, especially with V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2 and Al2O3, offer a viable solution to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate long-term stability in PDH reactions, maintaining high propene selectivity over cycles, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative for large-scale production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. However, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability [3]. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation [6], alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits [7], modifying supports to control coke [8], adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity [9], and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms [10]. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the demands of the chemical industry while overcoming the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species, reducing side reactions, and producing active phases under fine structure conditions. The ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand forecasted to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields efficient catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. The acidity of zeolites plays a crucial role, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieving high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a propylene production method addresses industrial demand and production limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, are developed to overcome catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. These strategies aim to increase selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, crucial for the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are key to understanding PDH, and small particle sizes increase active sites but also diversify local environments, impacting deactivation. Design strategies must balance the need for active sites with the prevention of side reactions that lead to deactivation. The role of valence states of Pt and the impact of geometric and electronic structures on propylene adsorption and side reactions are critical considerations in catalyst design. Understanding deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is essential for designing more stable catalysts. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments, with a focus on reducing activity to increase selectivity. The use of H2 and CO2 in reaction conditions can also positively affect coke elimination. The confinement situation offered by supports can prevent sintering, and regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for growing propylene demand, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies target deactivation issues, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability, as highlighted in the quote: 'PDH is a viable alternative for meeting growing propylene demand, overcoming traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, though detailed literature is lacking.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 is explored to avoid thermodynamic limitations; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons, but results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternatives but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability. Further research is essential to address these issues and develop effective reaction systems for oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional oil-based cracking limitations, nonoxidative PDH techniques, leveraging propane's price advantage, emerge as a viable alternative. Thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues. Substantial progress in inhibiting deactivation highlights the technique's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance through CADH, increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 exhibits anti-coking properties and higher propene yields. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, tackling the limitations of toxic Cr and ecologically harmful Pt catalysts. An innovative method develops eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts, which exhibit three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions while maintaining similar selectivity, as demonstrated in a benchmark test against commercial alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, especially through oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which leverages innovative catalyst design to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking. Seeking energy efficiency, researchers are developing low-temperature PDH methods. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, offering a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation addresses catalyst deactivation and energy inefficiency, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modifications, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies that are refilled by O2 or CO2, completing the catalytic cycle. However, lower temperatures are required for higher selectivity due to the ease of over-oxidation of reaction products. Understanding reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts remains a challenge, with side reactions needing consideration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Tuning crystallite size to smaller sizes and favoring the monoclinic phase boosts activity and selectivity to propene, critical for active site creation through lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, address the growing demand for propylene by enhancing stability and recyclability. The active site isolation strategy, as seen in the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively overcoming catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxides, due to their high activity and selectivity, are explored as efficient PDH catalysts. Innovative strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage, aim to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts slightly reduce dehydrogenation activity but significantly improve stability by preventing coke buildup, addressing deactivation issues in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH is emerging as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures and maintain activity. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for processing conditions, exhibit long-term stability and recyclability through eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity. VOX/MCM-41 demonstrates stability in non-oxidative PDH, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial demand and adapting to changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method (quote [2]). However, coke formation significantly hinders the performance and stability of Pt catalysts in PDH (quote [3]). To tackle this issue, researchers are exploring several strategies: cofeeding reductive gases like hydrogen (quote [6]), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (quote [7]), modifying supports (quote [8]), adjusting catalyst size (quote [9]), and investigating single Pt atom catalysts (quote [10]). These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability and stability, addressing the lack of systematic analysis on coke formation on Pt catalysts (quote [17]).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackle deactivation issues by enhancing catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production, addressing increasing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand forecasted to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-assisted PDH, is emerging as a key production method. Innovative catalysts, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial in tackling deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, highlighting the critical role of acidity in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, a critical PDH challenge, requires innovative design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability. Detailed solutions for catalyst deactivation remain underexplored, underscoring the need for further research and development in this area.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to enhance selectivity, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken precursor bonds, and the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. As demonstrated by Xiong et al., singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 show 100% conversion of propane, highlighting the potential of these strategies in overcoming deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH, alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability. Innovative catalyst design is crucial for stability and recyclability in PDH processes, with further research needed to address deactivation issues and enhance performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a pivotal innovation, tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thereby boosting PDH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to boost stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by focusing on innovative catalyst design to overcome deactivation. CADH for Al2O3 synthesis boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Innovative V/SiO2 catalyst preparation, like direct co-assembly for V-DMSNs, enhances V5+ species interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 properties and performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' role in VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues, prompting the development of eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts form ZnOx species in situ through a reaction with support OH groups, with defective OH groups playing a critical role. Compared to a KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the new ZnO-based catalyst showed three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, offering a promising solution to catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by enhancing stability and recyclability through innovative catalyst design. Supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area are key strategies. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, while enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Despite progress, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by developing non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This approach reduces energy consumption and coking issues, common in traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, and opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, primarily uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants interacting with surface oxygen to create oxygen vacancies, is central to these processes, requiring careful temperature control to maximize selectivity. Advanced catalyst design, such as single-atom catalysts and controlled oxygen sites, is crucial for balancing activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a high-propene-selectivity solution. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, tackle deactivation issues. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase boost activity and propene selectivity, surpassing tetragonal ZrO2. ZrO2's lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment creates active sites, enhancing recyclability and addressing deactivation in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using shale-gas-derived propane, is a viable propylene production method, overcoming traditional limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH processes. An innovative active site isolation strategy significantly enhances catalytic performance, as demonstrated by a synthesized catalyst achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation, supporting cobalt's long-term utility in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, known for high activity, selectivity, and regeneration, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies target surface structure and hydroxyl group control to minimize coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies focus on selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation, and promoting robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures, optimized through particle size and alloying elements.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using V-based catalysts on γ-Al2O3 and VOX/MCM-41, address propylene demand and traditional production limitations by enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. found high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH performance without gas-phase O2 for VOX/MCM-41, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showed remarkable stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, demonstrating the promise of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. However, catalyst deactivation, especially due to coke formation, hinders performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, including the addition of reductive gases to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying platinum with metals like tin for additional benefits (Quote 7), modifying supports (Quote 8), adjusting catalyst size (Quote 9), and exploring single atom catalysts (Quote 10). These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, meeting industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, making the catalysts cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, estimated to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. The number of redox Cr sites directly correlates with propene yield, highlighting the importance of these sites in the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH stands as a viable alternative, with catalyst innovation pivotal in tackling deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, critical for meeting industrial needs and adapting to evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the growing demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, enhance stability and recyclability by improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. Pt-based catalysts show promise, but their valence states and electronic properties significantly influence reactivity and selectivity. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals enhance propylene desorption and selectivity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments. Alloying with promoters modulates surface electronic structure and reactivity. Reducible metal oxides improve stability and selectivity. Modifying reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation. Strong metal-support interaction and confinement effects prevent sintering and enhance stability. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies in PDH processes tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, unlike established PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations have propelled PDH techniques as a viable alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies, like supported vanadium oxide catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability, optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative. Despite its potential, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability, targeting active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    