Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering efficient production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as using mesoporous Al2O3 supports synthesized through CADH, influence VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by affecting surface V species distribution. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields high concentrations of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification on VOx/Al2O3 with 12 wt% V loading shows anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, achieving propene yields of 1927% over 6 h DDH. The highest STY achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V/SiO2 catalysts (1:12 mass ratio) display optimal performance with a propene yield of 59.5% and stable selectivity of 90% over 6 h at 580 C, corresponding to a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V-DMSNs catalysts exhibit an initial propane conversion of 18.1% and propene selectivity of 91%, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, one of the highest VOx catalysts. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, shows a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, among the most active VOx-based catalysts. Preparation methods can tune the relative proportion and stability of the most active V species. The range of V-based catalyst performance varies, with the most active exhibiting STYs 34 times less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have limitations, including toxicity and harmful regeneration processes. An innovative method introduces eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts, which form ZnOx species in situ through reductive treatment. These catalysts, featuring active ZnOx species linked to defective OH groups, outperform commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity. This advancement tackles catalyst deactivation challenges, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency challenges. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms are being explored for NiOx-based ODH catalysts. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are addressing the limitations of traditional methods, which use costly and scarce Cr6 and Pt catalysts prone to coking and cracking. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) operates at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption. This non-precious catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to minimize coking, supported by a carbon nitride phase, offers a new route for efficient and high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but facing challenges such as poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, modifying carriers, and exploring single-atom catalysts with defined structures. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene. Innovations focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, where the monoclinic phase with smaller crystallite sizes outperforms tetragonal ZrO2, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, meet growing industrial demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance, as exemplified by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst. This catalyst, synthesized through a specialized process, achieves outstanding PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, noted for their activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, significantly enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH, addressing deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a viable solution. Catalyst deactivation is a critical challenge, but innovative design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with tailored active sites, promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are crucial for commercial PDH. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides increase resistance to coking, while optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41 are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, showcasing superior stability and recyclability. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. highlight high activity and stability in PDH processes, with VOX/MCM-41 catalysts achieving full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. emphasize the role of VOX species in deactivation, underscoring the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability in non-oxidative PDH, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts, are being developed to address these issues. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting the challenges posed by increasing propylene demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. Supported on high-silica HZSM-5, ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a growing demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the need for alternatives like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, as recognized by the correlation between the number of redox Cr sites and propene yield. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and constraints of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, directly addressing industrial needs and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. However, catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge, affecting stability and recyclability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, focusing on optimizing active sites and understanding deactivation mechanisms. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms, impacting selectivity and stability. Strategies such as alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions are being explored to inhibit deactivation, promote propylene selectivity, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. These advancements aim to enhance the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, making them more viable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for meeting rising propylene demand, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Detailed approaches to overcoming catalyst deactivation, though critical, remain under-documented.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow continuous operation but face challenges like noble metal loading and stability. Alternative catalysts, including GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address low reaction rates and toxicity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent progress in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, aims to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, where crystallization temperature influences Lewis acid sites and surface V species. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, such as V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites provide high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature and preparation methods are crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts, showcasing the range in performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally compatible solution. This catalyst, as demonstrated in testing, exhibits three times higher propene productivity compared to conventional catalysts, maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency through innovative catalyst design strategies. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts, necessitating careful VOx phase design. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these issues, researchers are developing new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts as microwave catalysts under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced. This innovation opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges with propylene selectivity, deactivation, and stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with specific metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing the MVK mechanism challenges and the need for lower temperatures to achieve higher selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, are pivotal for on-purpose production. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies emphasize ZrO2-based catalysts, which are eco-friendly, cost-effective, and crucial for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity to propene, while its ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are developed for PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as demonstrated by CoOx@NC/S-1, which exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method constraints. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with high activity and regeneration capabilities, are promising. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, enhance stability by suppressing coke deposition, improving recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, boosts stability and recyclability. These designs target selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and withstand high temperatures for commercial use. Promoters, including late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides, fortify resistance against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size, shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures exhibit superior activity and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 achieved high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH properties and full recovery with oxidative regeneration for VOX/MCM-41 catalysts. Rodemerck et al. also highlighted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. As highlighted in quote [1], the demand for propene has significantly increased, making PDH, as mentioned in quote [2], a promising route for propylene production. However, as noted in quote [3], Pt catalysts used in PDH face challenges with coke formation, which undermines their performance and stability. To address this issue, innovative strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote [6]), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (quote [7]), modifying supports (quote [8]), adjusting catalyst size (quote [9]), and exploring single atom Pt catalysts (quote [10]). These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as emphasized in quote [17], which notes the need for an updated and systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts. The development and comparison of different methods to inhibit coke formation, as stated in quote [20], are crucial for the future of PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane while addressing traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, enhances stability and recyclability. These optimized catalysts improve activity, reduce side reactions, and are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, meeting industrial demand and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are crucial. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pursued to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). By improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles, these approaches aim to increase the efficiency and recyclability of PDH catalysts. For instance, the fraction of active sites increases as metal particles shrink, impacting reactivity and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts, with their varying electronic states, play a significant role in the conversion of propane to propylene, with the potential for high selectivity under optimized conditions. The design of catalytic systems with enhanced performance is guided by the inhibition of deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation, which can be mitigated through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments. Understanding and addressing these challenges is essential for the advancement of PDH technology in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production alternative, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for enhancing stability, recyclability, and overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow continuous operation but face challenges in noble metal loading, stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too fast due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering temperature but risking overoxidation, and CO2 consuming H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but resulting in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals for selective hydrogen combustion are explored, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques enhance propylene production by improving catalyst stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, while Mg addition boosts anti-coking capability in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 reveals the impact of crystallization temperature on surface V species distribution. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs increases V5+ interaction with silica, boosting catalytic activity. VOx/SiO2 catalyst performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 as supports improve activity, with VOx/ZrO2 being five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 due to higher V3+ proportions. Catalyst design considers support nature and metal-support interactions for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can adjust the stability and proportion of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, crucial for meeting industrial demand amid energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts encounter toxicity and regeneration hurdles. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer an eco-friendly solution. These catalysts, leveraging the role of defective OH groups in active ZnOx species formation, outperform commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 counterparts, tripling propene productivity at similar selectivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques are advancing. Existing Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Innovations aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, enabling efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative PDH, requires controlled temperatures for high selectivity. Single-atom catalysts and acid-base property modifications through alkali metal additives are explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, notably ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts exhibit industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase showing higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for active site creation and propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. Active site isolation boosts catalytic performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, a synthesized catalyst, achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques using vanadium oxide catalysts offer an alternative. These catalysts, particularly VOx/γ-Al2O3, exhibit high activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure under reaction conditions, where surface-bound hydroxyl groups suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation poses a challenge, but innovative design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies minimize coke formation, maintain activity at high temperatures, and utilize promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth oxides to boost robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape improve catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer an alternative, focusing on V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 to enhance stability and recyclability. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, showing stability in PDH without gas-phase O2. Rodemerck et al. noted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41, linking deactivation to VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising solution for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. As highlighted in quote [1], the demand for propylene, a crucial chemical industry building block, has significantly increased. PDH, as noted in quote [2], is an effective route for propylene production, already in industrial use. However, as quote [3] points out, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge to PDH's performance and stability. To address this, innovative strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, as summarized in quotes [6] through [10]. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability and efficiency in PDH processes, meeting the growing need for more effective propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques offer a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for selective processes like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high chromium dispersion, are ideal for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites enhance propene yield, with dealumination improving catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites increases propene formation rate.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, addressing industrial demand and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing the issue of catalyst deactivation, which hinders the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and selectivity of PDH catalysts, reduce coke formation, and prevent the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) are among the approaches being developed. These methods not only improve the performance of PDH catalysts but also contribute to a better understanding of the deactivation mechanisms, leading to more effective and sustainable propylene production techniques. (Quote 1) highlights the ambiguity in understanding active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH, while (Quote 2) clarifies the focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. (Quote 3) discusses the impact of particle size on the diversity of exposed atoms, and (Quote 4) emphasizes the structure-sensitivity of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation. (Quote 15) underscores the influence of geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states on propylene adsorption and potential side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production alternative, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Amid growing demand, innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Literature acknowledges the need for such strategies, though detailed developments remain scarce.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to rapid coke deposition and lack of full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, significantly improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques for propylene production address industrial demand through innovative catalyst design. Strategies include CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 catalysts with increased Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ species interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of oil-based cracking. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally friendly solution. Tested under industrial conditions, it demonstrates three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, enhancing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by potentially reducing energy requirements. However, it faces challenges with temperature and selectivity, leading to catalyst deactivation. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, including the evaluation of supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and the exploration of membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Despite progress, selectivity remains a challenge, especially with VOx catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques are advancing. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, though effective, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues. Seeking methods with lower energy consumption, researchers are exploring low-temperature PDH. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM is developed, addressing deactivation challenges, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. This innovation opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, overcoming the energy-intensive conventional reaction mode.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing the MVK mechanism's oxygen vacancy formation and thermodynamic limitations. These advancements ensure higher selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes, making them a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH presents a viable alternative with high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 offer superior activity and selectivity to propene, surpassing tetragonal ZrO2, underscoring the critical role of phase composition and crystallite size in PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal. Active site isolation boosts performance. A CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, noted for their activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to prevent coke deposition, significantly enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. This approach ensures improved performance and sustainability in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides increase robustness against coking, while optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size and shape improve stability and recyclability, promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous materials, offer a viable alternative. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. highlight the superior stability of VOX/MCM-41, which can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, addressing deactivation issues. Rodemerck et al. emphasize the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit long-term stability and recyclability, as evidenced by consistent propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to tackle these issues, encompassing the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke formation, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for additional benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations have contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane while addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO clusters, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity, reduce side reactions, and are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for meeting increasing industrial demand and overcoming deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, underscoring the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of acidity on PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a promising alternative. These methods convert propane to propylene, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. Key strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), which aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, with their valence states impacting reactivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, remains a significant issue. Separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity. These strategies collectively improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, making them a viable solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH stands as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, uses O2 and CO2 as oxidants; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures, but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighted in literature, enhance selectivity and efficiency in PDH reactions, addressing stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, offers a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are addressing this issue to improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques for propylene production are advancing, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P and Mg modification, reduce VOx polymerization and coke formation, enhancing stability. CADH synthesis optimizes Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 supports, affecting surface V species distribution. Co-assembly in V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, improves V5+ interaction with silica, boosting catalytic activity. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing growing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. A new ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, offers an environmentally friendly solution with three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions. This addresses the need for stable and recyclable catalysts, with defective OH groups playing a key role in its formation and activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are gaining prominence. Traditional PDH catalysts, reliant on Cr6 and Pt, are hindered by cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, a focus on low-temperature PDH methods is emerging to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, operating under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been developed, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation, with cobalt as the active site, Sn as the promoter, and carbon nitride as the support, promises to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges such as poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen, is pivotal in oxidative PDH, necessitating lower temperatures to prevent over-oxidation of products. Understanding the complex nature of reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts remains a focus, with side reactions like deep dehydrogenation and H2O formation requiring consideration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing ZrO2-based catalysts, are pivotal for propylene production, offering high propene selectivity. These cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2, thus addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH techniques using abundant propane are gaining prominence. Cobalt catalysts, noted for their abundance and efficacy, are pivotal in PDH processes. An innovative active site isolation strategy significantly enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, noted for their activity and selectivity, are key PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on managing surface-bound hydroxyl groups to prevent coke deposition, thereby enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Balancing hydroxyl group coverage on the catalyst surface optimizes performance, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites. These advancements promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts capable of withstanding high temperatures for long-term activity, essential for commercial PDH technologies. Enhanced stability and recyclability are further achieved through optimal metal-support interactions and additional promoters.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Innovative design strategies for V-based catalysts, supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability. Bai et al. demonstrated high activity and stability with mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts. Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH performance and full recovery of VOX/MCM-41 catalysts through oxidative regeneration, highlighting the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts' promise for commercial PDH processes, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showing superior activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH, maintaining high propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to tackle coke formation, including the use of reductive gases, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and overcoming traditional production limitations. Computational simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, underscoring the importance of understanding and mitigating coke formation for improved PDH catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production amidst evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the need for alternatives. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is emerging as a critical solution. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites correlating with propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites facilitates high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, aligning with industrial demand and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that can be calculated from geometric models, understanding the influence of Pt geometric sites on adsorption configurations, and the role of valence states of Pt in the reactivity of propane conversion. The challenge of deactivation, often due to coke formation, can be mitigated by controlling the interaction between intermediates and the catalyst surface, optimizing the electronic states of Pt to inhibit coke precursors, and employing strong metal-support interactions to prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles. These approaches aim to improve the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production alternative, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional production limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and regeneration inefficiencies. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, offers full paraffin conversion by combusting hydrogen. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but introduces overoxidation risks, while CO2 is milder but less heat-producing. Finding the optimal catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show promise but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity, needing further development for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges to optimize PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, affecting catalytic performance via Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, enhance V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, due to higher V3+ species proportions. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer an environmentally friendly solution. These catalysts, with active ZnOx species, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, aiming for lower-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, marking a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts suffering from poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies address deactivation challenges, improve selectivity, and control byproduct formation. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, highlights the need for controlled oxygen activity and metal-oxide interfaces to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts, making PDH a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are critical for propylene production, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This optimization is pivotal for creating active sites, improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes, and meeting industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, are a promising solution for growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. Specifically, spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) achieved 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, demonstrating exceptional PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, notably VOx/γ-Al2O3, are promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage, enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably suppress coke deposition, improving stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution. Central to PDH's success is overcoming catalyst deactivation, achieved through innovative design strategies. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential. Late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides enhance resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, critical for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative design strategies, like V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids (SiO2, Al2O3), optimized through gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior activity, stability, and recyclability. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts show high stability and can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, making V-based catalysts a promising option for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, the industrial implementation of PDH is hindered by coke formation on Pt catalysts, which significantly undermines catalytic performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate this issue, including hydrogen cofeeding with propane to significantly reduce coke formation (quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like Sn to reduce coke and enhance other beneficial effects (quote 7), modifying supports to control coke formation (quote 8), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst, which has a significant influence on reactivity and side reactions in PDH (quote 9). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability and stability in PDH processes, addressing the challenges of industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites effectively disperse Zn species, minimize side reactions, and make the catalysts cost-effective and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is gaining prominence as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance in CO2-PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the importance of acidity control in achieving optimal catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a critical PDH challenge, is being addressed through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include understanding active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, optimizing particle size to increase active sites while managing local environments, and leveraging electronic states to improve selectivity and prevent deactivation. Alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions are being explored to inhibit coke formation and sintering, primary causes of deactivation. Support modification, such as the addition of reducible oxides, and treatment adjustments, like hydrogen cofeeding, are also effective in improving catalyst performance and regeneration. These efforts are crucial for optimizing PDH processes in the context of evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address deactivation challenges, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. PtSn and CrOx catalysts lead in PDH, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face fast deactivation due to coke, needing research for stability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2, lacks thermodynamic limits. O2 prevents coke and lowers temperature but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but produces less heat. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates, needing resolution for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal in meeting growing propylene demand, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, like supported vanadium oxide catalysts, addresses deactivation challenges, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving efficiency and selectivity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, boosting stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional catalysts using Cr or Pt have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, as per quote [3], is environmentally friendly and forms active ZnOx species through reductive treatment. As quote [7] indicates, this catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions with similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods through innovative catalyst design. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are explored for alkane dehydrogenation, potentially co-generating alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. The VOx phase's nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, with challenges in propene selectivity at higher alkane conversion. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To tackle the challenges of costly, scarce, or detrimental PDH catalysts that suffer from coking and cracking, and the high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode, researchers have innovated a microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. This method employs a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst. This novel approach opens a new route for the efficient and sustainable utilization of abundant propane resources with significantly reduced energy consumption, addressing the increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing challenges like deactivation and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with additional metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on improving catalyst performance through the MVK mechanism and the control of oxygen sites to balance activity and selectivity, as highlighted in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized with monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes, overcome deactivation issues by releasing lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation, thus enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH is a viable propylene production alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are pivotal in PDH, as evidenced by the exceptional performance of CoOx@NC/S-1. This catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using supported vanadium oxides, emerge as promising catalysts. Innovative design strategies target surface-bound hydroxyl group control to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability. This approach effectively balances activity and stability, improving PDH process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative strategies focus on employing promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to resist coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and using alloying elements are critical for enhancing stability and recyclability, ensuring PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies for V-based catalysts on supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 show promise. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit high activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH, while VOX/MCM-41 catalysts demonstrate full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting V-based catalysts' potential in commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces the challenge of coke formation, which significantly undermines the performance and stability of platinum catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate deactivation issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism, providing important insights into PDH catalysts and the reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative by directly converting propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies employ high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts. These zeolites, with their structured and adjustable acidity, enhance Zn dispersion and reduce side reactions, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, expected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites influencing propene yield. The acidity level post-dealumination impacts catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes, meeting rising industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals (Quote 14), facilitate propylene desorption and inhibit deep dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Separating active metal components, like the interaction between Pt and Cu, suppresses structure-sensitive side reactions and improves propylene selectivity. Pt/Cu single-atom alloys (SAAs) break scaling relationships and eliminate deep dehydrogenation, enhancing propylene selectivity up to 90% (Quote 55). Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, can be mitigated through the design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation, focusing on the modification of supports, metals, and treatments to prevent sintering and leaching, and to improve regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Catalyst deactivation challenges are being tackled through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. However, specific details on these strategies remain scarce, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition, requiring further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored with O2 and CO2 as oxidants, each presenting distinct advantages and challenges. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, being milder, results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternative solutions but need to address issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, for instance, enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P and Mg modifications of VOx/Al2O3, and the co-assembly process for V/SiO2 catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Temperature variations during preparation influence catalytic performance by affecting the distribution of surface V species and the amount of acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. The nature of the support and preparation methods are crucial for tuning the proportion and stability of the most active V species, impacting the overall performance of V-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of oil-based cracking. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, overcomes these challenges. This catalyst, leveraging defective OH groups, exhibits three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, offering an environmentally friendly solution to enhance PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. However, it faces challenges with alkene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Catalysts like VOx and NiOx-based ODH are being optimized for selectivity and activity. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance, while NiOx catalysts explore electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts are costly, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption. A novel PDH method at lower temperatures is being developed to minimize energy use. This approach uses microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, opening a pathway for efficient propane utilization at reduced temperatures. The innovative catalyst design, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin boosts stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, addresses the need for stable, recyclable catalysts in PDH processes, directly tackling the challenges of traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies target the MVK mechanism, focusing on controlling oxygen sites to balance activity and selectivity, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The complex nature of PDH mechanisms and pathways, including side reactions, highlights the ongoing need for research and development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a high-propene-selectivity alternative. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2, underscoring the importance of phase composition and crystallite size in PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques utilizing shale-gas propane emerge as a solution. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance, as evidenced by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst. This catalyst, with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation, as demonstrated in a 10-hour reaction at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using supported vanadium oxides, address industrial demand for propylene by offering an alternative production route. Innovative design strategies focus on hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Tuning hydroxyl group coverage balances activity and stability, improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements aim to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation, ensuring robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures and maintain activity. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape further improve catalyst performance in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques using V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being explored. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and VOX/MCM-41, respectively, with the latter showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlighted the superior properties of VOX/MCM-41, attributing it to the stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges through enhanced stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative for large-scale production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods (Quote 1, 2). However, coke formation significantly hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH (Quote 3). Innovative strategies, including hydrogen cofeeding to reduce coke (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like tin for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity (Quote 9), are being developed. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) offer insights into PDH's deactivation mechanism and highlight the need for a systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts (Quotes 11, 17). These approaches aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, effectively tackling the challenges posed by growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, bypassing steam cracking. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on stability and recyclability. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites serve as supports for ZnO catalysts, improving activity and stability. Under precise conditions, small ZnO clusters connect to the zeolite framework at sparse Al sites, creating low-cost, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected demand for propylene reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal in enhancing PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high dispersion of chromium species, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. [Quote 1] highlights the need for a better understanding of active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH. [Quote 2] discusses the clarification of active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. [Quote 3] points out the impact of particle size on the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments. [Quote 4] emphasizes the structure-sensitivity of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation. [Quote 5] illustrates the increase in under-coordinated atoms as metal particles shrink. [Quote 10] introduces the impact of Pt valence states on propane conversion. [Quote 11] provides an example of high propane conversion with singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2. [Quote 14] shows that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity. [Quote 15] underlines the influence of geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states on propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. [Quote 26] notes that the primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation. [Quote 33] suggests that inhibition of deactivation is crucial for designing catalytic systems with improved performance. [Quote 50] indicates that separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions and improve propylene selectivity. [Quote 53] demonstrates the promotional effect of Cu on the catalytic performance of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for PDH. [Quote 60] describes the impact of alloying on the surface electronic structure and reactivity. [Quote 63] explains how the addition of reducible metal oxides can improve catalytic stability and selectivity. [Quote 71] suggests that changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively affect coke elimination.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial needs. It combats catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability through evolving design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Despite progress with PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues, particularly due to coke deposition, hinder full activity recovery. Innovative catalyst design is essential for stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is advantageous. O2, as an oxidant, prevents coke deposition but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and must address toxicity issues for industrial viability. (Quote 3) highlights the fast deactivation of alternative catalysts due to coke deposition and the inability to fully recover activity through regeneration. (Quote 11) emphasizes the less heat formed when CO2 is used, keeping the dehydrogenation reaction endothermic, and the potential for additional coke deposition due to the reverse water-gas shift reaction.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is a promising alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent efforts concentrate on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P and Mg modification improve stability and anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared through direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. VOx/ZrO2 shows enhanced performance from the reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative for propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, with similar selectivity, under industrial conditions, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for efficient dehydrogenation. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. PDH techniques aim to overcome decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion, emphasizing the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. Efforts to design efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts explore electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms, inspired by homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are gaining traction. Existing PDH catalysts, reliant on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these issues, researchers are innovating catalyst design strategies for PDH processes that operate at lower temperatures. A groundbreaking approach utilizes a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at reduced temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, primarily uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies involve using single-atom catalysts to establish structure-reactivity relationships, modifying acid-base properties with alkali metals, and controlling oxygen site ratios to balance activity and selectivity. Metal-oxide interfaces and oxygen activity tuning are explored to reduce byproducts and improve selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling. The MVK mechanism, or lattice oxygen mechanism, is crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with catalyst surface oxygen atoms, generating oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. This mechanism is central to understanding the thermodynamic limitations and the need for an added oxidant in the PDH process to release heat and improve selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, enhances stability and recyclability. The monoclinic phase and the catalyst's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment create active sites, crucial for propane activation and overcoming deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a vital alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and traditional method limitations by utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are being developed for PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, due to their high activity and selectivity, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence, mitigate deactivation issues, enhancing stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, ensuring better performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation issues by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation, ensuring robustness at high temperatures. These advancements enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial PDH technologies, maintaining catalyst activity over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) using V-based catalysts on supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, emerges as a promising solution. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for stability and Bai et al.'s work on V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, highlight enhanced activity and stability. Sokolov et al.'s research on VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showcases stable PDH properties and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, underscoring the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH applications, addressing deactivation challenges and aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, including the use of reductive gases, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism, revealing the origin and nature of coke. These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH techniques offer a direct conversion from propane, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO clusters, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with tailored acidity, disperse Zn species, minimizing side reactions. The resulting ZnO catalysts, cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, are ideal for industrial propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, are gaining traction. Innovative catalysts, like chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion on Beta zeolites creates effective CO2-PDH catalysts. The number of redox Cr sites correlates with propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity and high acidity favoring propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. [Quote 10] highlights the impact of valence states on reactivity, while [Quote 50] demonstrates the effectiveness of separating active metal components to inhibit side reactions and improve propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and method limitations. It focuses on innovative catalyst design to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Detailed strategies, however, are underrepresented in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides face deactivation issues due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 shows promise; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer solutions but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity. Further research is crucial to resolve these issues and improve PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations highlight PDH techniques as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on propane's price advantage. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but recent strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, aligning with global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming catalyst deactivation. CADH synthesizes high-surface-area Al2O3, impacting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, produces active V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand amidst limitations of traditional Cr/Pt catalysts, which suffer from toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offer an environmentally friendly solution. These catalysts, notably ZnOsilicalite-1, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, effectively tackling deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially reduce energy requirements, enhancing efficiency. However, higher temperatures decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed, potentially cogenerating alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are advancing. Existing PDH catalysts, reliant on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are emerging for PDH methods operating at lower temperatures to minimize energy use. A groundbreaking approach utilizes a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at reduced temperatures. This development targets deactivation issues, stability enhancement, and recyclability improvement in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, involving reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies that are replenished to complete the catalytic cycle. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, releasing heat. However, higher selectivity requires lower temperatures, while the activation of the CH bond necessitates higher temperatures. Ongoing research focuses on refining catalysts to address these issues, ensuring PDH remains a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing traditional production limitations. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, overcome deactivation, enhancing stability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase exhibit higher activity and propene selectivity, crucial for active site creation upon reductive treatment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative, utilizing abundant propane. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their performance and earth's cobalt abundance, are crucial in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, noted for their activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, are crucial. These groups suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH, addressing key deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, is pivotal for overcoming deactivation issues. These strategies promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial viability. Robust catalysts, with optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size, withstand high temperatures and maintain activity, improving resistance against coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer an alternative, focusing on V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 to address deactivation issues. Studies highlight the superior catalytic properties of mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supported V-based catalysts, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit remarkable long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. These findings support the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, hinders performance (Quote 3). Innovative strategies to mitigate deactivation include the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like tin (Quote 7), and adjusting catalyst size (Quote 9). These advancements aim to improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, such as ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, making the catalysts cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially CO2-PDH, is emerging as a viable solution. Innovative catalysts, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal for enhancing PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with high thermal stability and surface area, enable optimal dispersion of chromium species, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are essential in the oxidative pathway, with the number of redox Cr sites directly impacting propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with SiBeta's low acidity favoring high propene selectivity and AlBeta's high acidity promoting propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals that Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites boost propene formation rate, unlike AlBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH presents a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's effectiveness in meeting industrial needs and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions. They aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as particle size decreases, impacting the dehydrogenation process. Active sites can be calculated from geometric models, and the geometric and electronic states of these sites significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The first CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, and the energy barriers for cracking and dehydrogenation are crucial. The primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to decreased catalytic activity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity. Alloying with promoters impacts the energies and availability of valence electrons, modulating surface electronic structure and reactivity. Modifying supports with metal oxides improves stability and selectivity by electron transfer. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also reduce coke formation. Strong metal-support interaction and confinement effects provided by supports can prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is effective for removing coke and reactivating catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, directly addressing the challenges in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition and regeneration inefficiencies. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic constraints; O2 reduces coke and lowers temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes hydrogen but produces less heat and may increase coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer solutions but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity. Finding the optimal catalyst-oxidant combination is key for effective oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and oil-based cracking limitations, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing key deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, with catalyst design strategies enhancing performance. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, boosting VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, outperform VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital oil-cracking alternative for propylene, addressing limitations of toxic Cr and regeneration-requiring Pt catalysts. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions, demonstrate threefold higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, showcasing environmental compatibility and enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. However, challenges arise as alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the design of proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes is being investigated. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being designed, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under CRM. To tackle these issues, there's a push for low-temperature PDH methods to save energy. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under MCRM, has been developed. This innovation utilizes abundant propane resources efficiently at lower temperatures, with cobalt serving as the active site, tin enhancing stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride providing support, opening a new route for high-value propane utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts showing unsatisfactory selectivity, rapid deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving lattice oxygen in oxidative dehydrogenation, requires precise temperature control to prevent over-oxidation. Further research is needed to understand elusive reaction mechanisms and manage side reactions, emphasizing the importance of developing advanced catalysts for improved PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing growing propylene demand and production limitations, offer high propene selectivity as a primary production method. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based, tackles deactivation by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing activity and selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase improve propene yield, while ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient PDH solutions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are pivotal in PDH. Active site isolation boosts catalytic performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, a novel catalyst, achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, exemplifying innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure, particularly hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, including the use of promoters like late transition metals and optimized metal-support interactions to boost resistance against coking, ensuring long-term activity and commercial success of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques, particularly those employing V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are gaining prominence. These catalysts, optimized for conditions such as gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior stability and recyclability, as demonstrated by VOX-SiO2 catalysts in PDH reactions. These catalysts maintain high propane conversion and propene selectivity, even after multiple regeneration cycles, making them a viable option for commercial PDH processes, especially with full recovery through oxidative regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in use, encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to tackle these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques offer a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability. These advancements result in cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, leading to the exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, correlating with yield up to 2wt % of Cr. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Evolving approaches refine PDH processes, addressing key production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the increasing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. A major challenge in PDH processes is catalyst deactivation, which innovative design strategies aim to address by enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, understanding the role of particle size in increasing active sites, and the influence of geometric and electronic structures on propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Key to improving performance is the design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation, achieved through modifying supports, metals, and treatments. Understanding deactivation mechanisms and proposing effective strategies are essential for advancing PDH technology. As [1] highlights, the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH are crucial but not fully understood. Strategies to overcome these challenges, as mentioned in [2], involve clarifying active sites, pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. [3] emphasizes the impact of particle size on the diversity of exposed atoms, affecting the number of active sites. [4] points out that side reactions, sensitive to structure, lead to catalyst deactivation. [5] shows that the fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as particle size decreases, which is significant for active site density. [6] and [7] discuss the different adsorption configurations on Pt surfaces, reflecting the influence of geometric sites. [10] introduces the impact of Pt valence states on propane conversion reactivity. [11] provides an example of 100% propane conversion with singly dispersed Pt on CeO2. [15] states that every Pt surface atom is active for propane dehydrogenation, but geometric and electronic states significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. [26] notes that the primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation, which [27] explains preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites. [33] asserts that for improved performance, inhibition of deactivation is a critical requirement. [50] suggests that separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity. [53] describes how the interaction between Pt and Cu elevates the energy barrier for CC bond breaking and facilitates C3H6 desorption. [60] explains that alloying with diverse promoters impacts the energies and availability of valence electrons, modulating surface electronic structure and reactivity. [63] highlights alumina as a conventional support for Pt-based catalysts, beneficial for dispersing platinum clusters and enhancing stability. [71] suggests that changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively affect coke elimination.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production alternative, innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for rising industrial demand and navigating global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, lacking the stability of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but poses challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, requiring catalyst regeneration and facing toxicity issues. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "PDH, especially nonoxidative PDH, is a cost-effective propylene production method due to the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 exhibits anti-coking properties and higher propene yields. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 catalytic performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as stable supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, tackling industrial demand. Traditional Cr- or Pt-based catalysts encounter toxicity and regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst showcases three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, marking a significant advancement in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face challenges with decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques are crucial. However, conventional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to cost, scarcity, harm, and long-term coking. The direct PDH reaction under CRM is also energy-intensive. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst addresses these issues by enabling low-temperature PDH, reducing energy consumption, and offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues like poor propylene selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, characteristic of oxidative PDH, necessitates lower temperatures for higher selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, emerge as a key solution. Innovative design strategies, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues, offering environmental and economic benefits. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size enhances propene selectivity, with smaller sizes and the monoclinic phase outperforming tetragonal ZrO2, crucial for industrial non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as demonstrated by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as per Quote [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using supported vanadium oxides, address growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations. Innovative design strategies focus on hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes by balancing activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, address propylene production needs by minimizing coke formation and promoting selective dehydrogenation. Innovative strategies, like employing late transition metals and optimizing metal-support interactions, enhance robustness against coking and improve stability and recyclability, crucial for high-temperature operations and long-term activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) using V-based catalysts on supports like SiO2 emerges as a promising alternative. These catalysts, notably VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2, exhibit high stability and recyclability, with optimized gelation and calcination temperatures enhancing catalytic activity. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirmed the high activity and stability of V-based catalysts, with the latter showing full VOX/MCM-41 catalyst recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. underscored the link between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, reinforcing the suitability of V-based catalysts for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a promising alternative. PDH, an established industrial process, faces challenges due to coke formation on Pt catalysts, affecting performance and stability. Innovative strategies, including reductive gas cofeeding, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, support modification, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts, aim to mitigate coke formation. Computational simulations using DFT provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, enhancing catalyst recyclability in PDH processes. These advancements address industrial needs and overcome traditional production limitations, focusing on catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques convert propane directly to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured framework and controlled acidity, improve Zn species dispersion and minimize side reactions, making the ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a growing demand for propylene, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, with innovative catalyst design strategies addressing deactivation issues. Chromium-containing Beta zeolites, known for their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are pivotal in enhancing PDH efficiency. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, where redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of catalyst design on PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation challenges, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the optimization of active sites, understanding deactivation mechanisms, and the impact of particle size on activity. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also expose atoms to diverse local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. The challenge of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation is being addressed through the design of catalysts with specific geometric and electronic structures that inhibit coke formation and promote propylene desorption. Additionally, the use of bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports, metals, and treatments are being explored to inhibit deactivation, with a focus on preventing coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. These approaches aim to improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes by enhancing catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH is emerging as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as detailed literature remains scarce.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, deactivation issues persist, mainly due to coke deposition, hindering full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity and reaction rate issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative design strategies, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have significantly advanced to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    