Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhance stability and recyclability, addressing challenges in propylene production. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 supports affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by influencing the distribution of surface V species. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and boosts catalytic performance. The V/SiO2 catalyst (1:12 mass ratio) achieves superior initial propene yield (59.5%) and stable selectivity (90%). Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high initial propane conversion (18.1%) and propene selectivity (91%). VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Preparation methods and synthesis strategies are crucial for forming well-defined support structures and active sites. The role of other V species in the DDH reaction requires further investigation. The range of V-based catalyst performance varies, with the most active exhibiting space time yields (STYs) 34 times less active than the most active Pt catalysts. Preparation conditions significantly influence catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and oil-based process limitations. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts encounter toxicity and regeneration hurdles. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offer an eco-friendly solution. These catalysts, featuring active ZnOx species, showcase three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, as demonstrated in industrial tests against commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored, with the potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts, and the design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is being investigated. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques have surfaced as a solution. However, conventional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, rare, or toxic, and face long-term coking and cracking issues. Moreover, the direct propane dehydrogenation reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these challenges, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for the first time, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This innovation not only reduces energy consumption but also opens a new pathway for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation concerns effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining traction. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts being active but facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke and sintering. To address these, strategies like doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers are explored. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation, requires temperature control for activity and selectivity. Advanced catalysts, including single-atom catalysts and those with controlled oxygen sites, are developed to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address growing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, combats deactivation issues. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance propene activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address the surge in propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and promising, are optimized for PDH. Active site isolation boosts catalytic performance. A recent study showcases a synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, noted for high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies, focusing on controlling the surface structure, particularly surface-bound hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Techniques like single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts withstand high temperatures and maintain activity, essential for commercial PDH. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, bolstering resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative design strategies, notably V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, combat deactivation issues. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 achieved high PDH activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported stable catalytic properties for VOX/MCM-41 in non-oxidative PDH, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlighted VOX/MCM-41's superior properties for PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrated remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, an established industrial process, encounters challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, affecting performance and stability. Innovative strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, aiding in the development of more stable and recyclable catalysts for PDH processes. These advancements aim to address the limitations of traditional methods and meet the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with active ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected demand for propylene reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. PDH, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), is gaining significance due to its ability to address growing demand without impacting co-product yields. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, improving catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the importance of acidity control in achieving optimal PDH outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints in traditional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. These methods convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms is crucial for the design of more stable catalysts, as highlighted by the need for strategies that inhibit deactivation and promote performance. The development of these strategies is essential for the advancement of PDH technology in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of traditional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Ongoing research tackles catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, though detailed design strategies remain under development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand amidst changing energy landscapes. Traditional catalysts (PtSn, CrOx) enable competitive, continuous operation but face challenges in stability and energy efficiency. Alternative metal oxides, though explored, deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5) but introduces new challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation (Quotes 6, 10). Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal for effective oxidative dehydrogenation (Quote 15).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus boosting propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, exploiting the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, directly addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification reduces coke deposits, boosting performance. Synthesis methods, such as CADH for Al2O3 and co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, increase surface area and active V species, crucial for high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with facile reduction of VO bonds, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species, showing five times greater activity than VOx/Al2O3. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. Catalyst performance is influenced by the nature of the support and preparation methods, affecting the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, provides an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst exhibits three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, effectively overcoming deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by its performance under industrially relevant conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies focus on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms are being explored for efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. However, the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques have emerged as alternatives to traditional production methods. However, conventional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts has been introduced, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts due to poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms. Efforts also consider thermodynamic limitations and the need for lower temperatures to achieve higher selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation, optimizing PDH for industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a key process for on-purpose propene production, offering high selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size of ZrO2 catalysts, which can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creates active sites crucial for propane activation, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase showing higher activity and selectivity to propene. These environmentally friendly and cost-efficient catalysts are pivotal in improving PDH performance, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, noted for their abundance and effectiveness, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, demonstrating exceptional PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, noted for their high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of these catalysts, particularly by managing surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition and enhance stability, thus improving recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues by enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation. These robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining long-term activity, are crucial for PDH's commercial success. Enhancements include the use of promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to boost resistance against coking, while controlling metal-support interactions and particle size ensures improved stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, are addressing deactivation challenges by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit remarkable long-term stability and recyclability, maintaining high propane conversion rates and propene selectivity over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies, like cofeeding hydrogen to reduce coke (Quote 6) and alloying Pt with metals such as Sn (Quote 7), are being explored. Adjusting the size of Pt catalysts also influences reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the growing need for propylene and overcoming production constraints.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts improve activity and reduce side reactions, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, specifically the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching operation modes between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, illustrating the effectiveness of these design strategies in meeting industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods have propelled PDH as a viable alternative. Novel catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing key challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. A significant challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which is being addressed through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies focus on developing active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and employing alloying and support modifications to improve catalyst performance. For example, single-atom catalysts and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) prevent the agglomeration of metal nanoparticles, while the addition of promoters like Cu can elevate energy barriers for unwanted reactions, facilitating propylene desorption. Modifying reaction conditions, such as co-feeding hydrogen or CO2, can also reduce coke formation and maintain catalyst stability. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the limitations of traditional propylene production methods, focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition, hindering full regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored as a solution. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures, but overoxidation risks must be managed. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 but results in less heat formation and may lead to additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical for effective oxidative dehydrogenation. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals for selective hydrogen combustion, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability and recyclability, as evidenced by improved selectivity and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability, including active site regulation, metal-support interaction enhancement, and support modification, directly addressing the core issue of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, increase Lewis acid sites, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, such as V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to direct co-assembly. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. The nature of the support and preparation methods are crucial in tuning the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these issues. Defective OH groups are crucial for the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO catalyst shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, marking a significant PDH advancement.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. However, it faces challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors' efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Propane dehydrogenation in proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, VOx catalysts struggle with decreased propene selectivity at higher conversions, highlighting the critical role of VOx phase nature in catalyst performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, while effective, are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time. Direct PDH under conventional reaction mode is energy-intensive. To address these issues, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, offers a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening new avenues for high-value propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, requiring lower temperatures for higher selectivity. These strategies tackle deactivation issues, improving selectivity and reducing byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts release lattice oxygen, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial. Active site isolation enhances PDH catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing exceptional PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxides, emerge as promising alternatives. Innovative design strategies focus on hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, which suppress coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thus enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands as a viable alternative, with a focus on innovative catalyst design to combat deactivation. Key strategies include the development of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts to enhance selectivity and minimize coke formation, crucial for PDH's commercial success. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size further improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH using V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, particularly VOX-SiO2, shows superior stability and performance. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirm high activity and stability of V-based catalysts on Al2O3 and MCM-41, with VOX/MCM-41 fully recovering after oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlight the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, underscoring V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability in PDH, maintaining propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production, as stated in quote 2. However, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which significantly undermines catalytic performance and stability, as highlighted in quote 3. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, as mentioned in quote 6, alloying platinum with metals like tin, as noted in quote 7, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and energy landscape changes. There is a recognized absence of an updated and systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH, as stated in quote 17, indicating a need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH has surfaced as a promising alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, boost activity, reduce side reactions, and are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "To address the growing demand for propylene, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are gaining significance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion, essential for high catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are proposed in the oxidative pathway, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-PDH, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Ongoing research targets catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, with innovative design strategies under development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, focusing on the clarification of active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms. The challenge lies in understanding the fundamental active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve the modification of supports, metals, and treatments to inhibit the primary cause of deactivation, coke formation. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance requires the inhibition of deactivation, which can be achieved through various synthetic strategies. Pt-based catalysts, particularly those with isolated active sites and high electron density, show promise in improving propylene selectivity and stability. The use of reducible metal oxides, such as TiO2, and the modification of Al2O3 supports can enhance catalytic stability and propylene selectivity. Changes in reaction conditions, such as the cofeeding of H2 and CO2, can also positively impact coke elimination and catalyst stability. The development of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the use of confinement situations provided by supports can prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles, ensuring the longevity and efficiency of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. However, detailed strategies for overcoming catalyst deactivation are under-documented, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face challenges with fast deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces issues like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, like supported vanadium oxide, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH offers a competitive alternative, capitalizing on the propane-propylene price differential. Catalyst deactivation, a critical challenge, is being addressed through innovative design strategies focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques are addressing industrial demand for propylene by improving catalyst design. Catalysts like VOx/Al2O3, modified with P to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg for anti-coking, show enhanced stability. Direct co-assembly in V/SiO2 catalysts, such as V-DMSNs, boosts activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits high activity due to increased V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance, while Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst design, including support nature and preparation methods, is crucial for optimizing metal-support interactions and V species stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Existing Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst preparation method creates environmentally friendly catalysts. Supported ZnOx species form through a reaction with Zn atoms above 550C, facilitated by defective OH groups. Under industrial conditions, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrated three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods through innovative catalyst design. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Cogeneration in proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors is promising, but challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these issues, researchers have developed a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and a carbon nitride phase as support, opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, effectively reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form vacancies, is crucial in oxidative PDH. These advancements aim to optimize catalyst performance and meet the demands of a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, combats deactivation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase boost activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, showcasing its potential in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, offer a viable propylene production alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Synthesizing spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) via a two-step process results in a catalyst with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, focusing on single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites. These advancements promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts withstand high temperatures, maintaining activity for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters and controlled particle size enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit superior activity and stability, while V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and VOX/MCM-41 show high activity, stability, and recyclability through oxidative regeneration, as evidenced by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. These findings highlight the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production, yet faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and investigating single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, aiding in the development of more stable and recyclable catalysts for PDH processes. Despite advancements, there is a need for a systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts, which is crucial for enhancing reactivity and stability in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address catalyst deactivation challenges. These zeolites improve catalytic activity and stability by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making the ZnO catalysts suitable for industrial use due to their low cost, toxicity-free nature, and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, forecasted to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, drives the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly oxidative and nonoxidative processes, emerges as a critical solution. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective CO2-assisted PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites boost propene yield, with dealumination impacting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, addressing the catalyst deactivation challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge, is being tackled through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include understanding the role of active sites and deactivation mechanisms, optimizing particle size to increase active sites while managing deactivation, and developing Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts that improve selectivity and stability. The use of single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals facilitates propylene desorption and inhibits deep dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports, metals, and treatments are also being explored to inhibit deactivation, with a focus on preventing coke formation and managing sintering. These approaches aim to improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through unspecified yet innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, aligning with increasing industrial demand and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of conventional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have been pivotal in PDH processes, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 is being explored to overcome thermodynamic limitations; O2 prevents coke formation and allows lower reaction temperatures, but requires careful control to avoid overoxidation. CO2, being a milder oxidant, results in less heat formation and may lead to additional coke deposition. Innovative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, are being developed to address catalyst regeneration and toxicity issues, which are critical for the industrial viability of these approaches.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for efficiency and selectivity in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, offers a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent catalyst design strategies, such as active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, aim to improve stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design to enhance stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for Al2O3 synthesis boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their properties. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, crucial for optimal catalyst performance. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene, tackling industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts encounter toxicity and regeneration hurdles. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed via OH group reactions at high temperatures, offer an eco-friendly solution. These catalysts, leveraging the role of defective OH groups, showcase triple the propene productivity at similar selectivity, as evidenced in industrial tests against conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy, enhance stability and recyclability. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance, while NiOx-based ODH catalysts explore electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and improving propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these challenges, a new low-temperature PDH method is sought to reduce energy use. Innovations include the CoSn/NC catalyst, a microwave catalyst that opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH has emerged as a viable alternative, using endothermic reactions with Pt- and Cr-based catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, however, face challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group elements, modifying carriers, and controlling oxygen sites, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, is crucial for understanding the oxidative dehydrogenation process. To break thermodynamic limitations, the reaction must be carried out at a lower temperature for higher selectivity, as the products are easily oxidized to produce CO and CO2. These strategies aim to improve the performance of PDH catalysts and address the challenges of deactivation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, focusing on optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhances activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates crucial coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations for propane activation, highlighting the significance of phase composition and crystallite size in PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH using shale-gas propane is a promising alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxides, due to their activity and selectivity, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure under reaction conditions to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, thus boosting catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To combat catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, emphasizing stability and recyclability. Key approaches include using promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides to resist coking, optimizing metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size for enhanced robustness and longevity, pivotal for PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports, like mesoporous silica and γ-Al2O3, exhibit high activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures show superior stability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports demonstrate stable catalytic properties in PDH, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, making them promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the severe impact of coke formation on the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH poses a significant challenge (Quote 3). Innovative design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the cofeeding of hydrogen with propane to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, enhancing stability and addressing the challenges posed by increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production amidst growing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected demand for 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, specifically the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and meeting the increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to enhance selectivity, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken precursor bonds, and the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. These approaches aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. [1] [2] [3]", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability are crucial through innovative design strategies. Further research is needed to detail these strategies, underscoring their importance in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Alternative catalysts face deactivation issues due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues. Finding a suitable catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and production constraints. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification decreases coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly of V/SiO2 catalysts strengthens V5+ interaction with silica, achieving high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 properties and performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, influencing metal-support interactions and acid site effects on VOx species. Preparation methods can adjust the proportion and stability of active V species, crucial for PDH process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Current technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, a process crucial for active species formation. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, the new ZnO catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a promising alternative. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, a novel approach using CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed. This low-temperature PDH method reduces energy consumption and opens new avenues for utilizing abundant propane resources, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity and stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative PDH, requiring lower temperatures for higher selectivity. These advancements are crucial for overcoming deactivation and improving selectivity in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the growing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing growing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity as a major on-purpose production method. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, focusing on optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, enhances activity and selectivity. The monoclinic phase and ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment are critical for creating active sites, thereby improving PDH performance and addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Notably, spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) exhibit exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxides serve as active PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are pivotal, focusing on single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential. Incorporating late transition metals and main-group metals increases resistance to coking, while optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior catalytic activity and stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles in non-oxidative PDH. VOX/MCM-41, in particular, shows high stability and full recovery potential with oxidative regeneration, making it a promising option for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the growing need for propylene and the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, converting propane directly without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, addresses deactivation issues by improving activity and stability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, producing small ZnO clusters connected to the framework under fine conditions and sparse Al sites. The catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand of 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are crucial for meeting industrial needs. As traditional production methods struggle, PDH, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), gains importance. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation boosts CO2-assisted PDH efficiency. The number of redox Cr sites significantly affects propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene. This highlights the effectiveness of Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts in switch operation modes between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, critical for evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation challenges, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). By improving selectivity and stability, reducing coke formation, and preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles, these approaches aim to optimize PDH catalysts. As highlighted by Xiong et al. (quote [11]), singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, demonstrating the potential of design strategies to overcome deactivation issues. Furthermore, the interaction between Pt and Cu, as shown by Gong and coworkers (quote [51]), can elevate the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitate propylene desorption, leading to higher propylene selectivity. These design strategies are crucial for enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as they address the fundamental challenges of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, though specific details remain underexplored. As noted, PDH emerges as a viable solution, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations, with innovative catalyst design strategies being pivotal to its success.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and the limitations of traditional methods. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, though milder, results in less heat formation and may increase coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P and Mg modification for VOx/Al2O3 to enhance stability and anti-coking capability, and direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, significantly improve catalytic activity. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, exhibit superior performance. These advancements in catalyst design, supported by experimental evidence, make PDH processes a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through OH group reactions above 550C, with defective OH groups playing a critical role. The new ZnO catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high oxygen flux and surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, achieving sufficient propene yield remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Supported vanadium and molybdenum catalysts exhibit varying propene selectivity and yield, influenced by the nature of the support and the interaction with vanadium. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). Innovative catalyst design strategies are addressing these issues through the development of a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as support, offers a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening avenues for high-value propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts being active but facing issues of selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to high-temperature effects like coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter addition and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, crucial in oxidative PDH, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies that can be refilled by O2 or CO2, creating a catalytic cycle. However, this process requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity and must consider the thermodynamic limitations and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, focusing on phase composition and crystallite size optimization, combats deactivation issues. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance propene activity and selectivity, crucial for active site creation. Monoclinic ZrO2 outperforms tetragonal ZrO2, demonstrating superior performance in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized via active site isolation, boosting PDH efficiency. A CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, exemplifying innovative stability and recyclability strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, noted for high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure, particularly the role of hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, address deactivation challenges by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial for commercial PDH. Additional promoters, including late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides, enhance resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts, supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for conditions, exhibit superior activity and stability, making them promising for commercial PDH. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts show stable properties and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting their potential for PDH without gas-phase O2. These advancements address deactivation issues, improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for large-scale production. PDH, already industrialized, faces the challenge of coke formation, which hinders platinum catalyst performance (Quote 3). Innovative strategies to mitigate coke formation include the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying platinum with metals such as tin (Quote 7), and exploring single atom catalysts (Quote 10). These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and traditional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues in propylene production. The zeolite's structure and acidity disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, with small ZnO clusters acting as active phases. These low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable catalysts are promising for industrial propylene production, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, and the constraints of conventional production methods are driving the evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. As traditional methods struggle, selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are gaining importance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal and acid stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III), playing a critical role in the oxidative pathway. The number of redox Cr sites significantly influences propene yield, and dealumination greatly impacts catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, with a focus on innovative catalyst design to tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, meeting evolving energy needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of single-atom catalysts, which improve selectivity and reduce coke formation, and the incorporation of support materials that modulate the electronic properties of the catalyst, decreasing acidity and improving dispersion. Alloying with promoters also impacts the availability of valence electrons, influencing reactivity and selectivity. Additionally, controlling reaction conditions, such as the addition of hydrogen or carbon dioxide, can help eliminate coke and maintain catalyst stability. The development of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the use of confinement effects in supports like mesoporous materials and zeolites prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles, further enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for improving the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for meeting industrial propylene demand, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for combating deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, though detailed specifics remain underdeveloped in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They are crucial in the context of increasing shale gas production, making natural gas a more economical feedstock. However, PDH processes using PtSn and CrOx catalysts face deactivation issues, primarily due to coke deposition, limiting their activity and recyclability. Innovative design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation, which avoids thermodynamic limitations, is being explored with O2 and CO2 as oxidants. O2 presents an advantage by eliminating coke deposition and lowering the reaction temperature, but overoxidation must be avoided to maintain high olefin selectivity. CO2, as a milder oxidant, can consume H2 under dehydrogenation conditions but may result in additional coke deposition due to the reverse water-gas shift reaction. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but these approaches require frequent catalyst regeneration and address issues of low reaction rates and toxicity. Further research is essential to develop practicable alternatives to PtSn and CrOx systems and to resolve the challenges of oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price variance between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent design strategies, including active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, significantly improve catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH for Al2O3 synthesis boosts VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits, improving catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to V5+ species interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid site influence on VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an eco-friendly alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of oil-based methods. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction with support OH groups under reductive treatment, overcomes these challenges. Defective OH groups are key for the formation of active ZnOx species. Under industrial conditions, the ZnO-based catalyst outperforms traditional KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PDH can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, increasing temperature boosts alkane conversion but reduces alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are advancing. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of CoSn/NC catalysts in a microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), address these challenges by operating at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption, and offering a new route for efficient propane utilization, thus enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges like deactivation and poor stability, especially with Pt-based catalysts at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism in oxidative dehydrogenation highlights the importance of controlling reaction temperatures to minimize byproduct formation and improve selectivity. These strategies aim to improve catalyst performance in response to industrial needs and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing growing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase in these catalysts are key for non-oxidative dehydrogenation, making them industrially relevant and cost-efficient.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, pivotal in PDH, are enhanced through innovative design strategies that manipulate surface-bound hydroxyl groups, suppressing coke formation. This enhancement boosts stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by minimizing coke formation and enhancing stability. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are pivotal for commercial PDH, promoting selective dehydrogenation and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable solution. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports, like silica and γ-Al2O3, exhibit superior stability and recyclability. Bai et al. confirmed high activity and stability on γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. demonstrated full recovery of VOX/MCM-41 catalysts through oxidative regeneration, underscoring VOX species' resilience. These catalysts are thus promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for propylene production (Quote 2). However, the formation of coke significantly hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) (Quote 7), and modifying catalyst supports and size (Quote 9). Computational simulations have contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism (Quote 11). A systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH is recognized as essential for improving catalyst stability and recyclability (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being explored, focusing on stability and recyclability. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, serving as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their structured framework and controlled acidity, disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions. The active ZnO clusters, connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under precise conditions, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a critical alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites boosting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals the positive impact of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are critical for addressing deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include optimizing active sites to prevent side reactions, controlling particle size for balanced activity and selectivity, and using supports that inhibit coke formation and sintering. Understanding metal oxidation states and dehydrogenation mechanisms is crucial for designing selective and stable PDH catalysts. Bimetallic compounds and support modifications with promoters like Zn and Mg improve selectivity and stability. Confinement of metal nanoparticles within supports and strong metal-support interactions prevent sintering, enhancing catalyst longevity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as controlling reaction conditions and designing catalysts that facilitate propylene desorption, are essential for PDH technology advancement. [Quote 10] highlights the impact of Pt valence states on propane conversion, while [Quote 31] emphasizes the importance of insights into deactivation mechanisms for designing stable Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method constraints. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition and poor regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 is being explored to overcome thermodynamic limitations; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures, but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions, but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability, selectivity, and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and the constraints of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a significant challenge, prompting advancements in catalyst design. Strategies focus on active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand by tackling catalyst deactivation. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance is enhanced by optimizing crystallization temperature, affecting Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification aids anti-coking and boosts catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures significantly impact VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 outperforms VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is critical in catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, offers higher propene productivity and environmental compatibility. This catalyst outperforms conventional ones, demonstrating about three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, as identified in quote [7].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, doped ceria for enhanced selectivity, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and improve stability and recyclability. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may contribute to efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. (Quote 2) Direct dehydrogenation of lower alkanes is energy intensive, but oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower the energy requirement. (Quote 3) Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design. (Quote 6) The role of potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts is to minimize the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. (Quote 17) Despite extensive research, there is not yet an ODH catalyst that gives a propene yield sufficient to be attractive to industry. (Quote 27) The heats of adsorption of alkenes on acidic sites are higher than those of the corresponding alkanes. (Quote 43) Alkene selectivity increases with decreasing Lewis acidity of the metal ions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is also energy-intensive. To address these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH processes at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach involves using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts as microwave catalysts under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which could open new avenues for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at reduced temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These approaches address deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism, where reactants with reducing properties interact with oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface. The addition of an oxidant helps overcome thermodynamic limitations but requires temperature control for high selectivity. The activation of the CH bond in propane necessitates high temperatures, highlighting the need for stable and efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address limitations in traditional propylene production. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, are industrially relevant and cost-efficient, making them a promising solution for PDH processes in the context of increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by converting abundant propane, particularly from shale-gas deposits. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial. Active site isolation enhances performance, as demonstrated by spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, achieving 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are highlighted as promising PDH catalysts, offering high activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of these catalysts, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. This enhances recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Incorporating promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, and metal oxides boosts robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape further improves performance, ensuring commercial viability and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts, notably VOX-SiO2, exhibit superior catalytic activity and stability, addressing deactivation issues. These catalysts, supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, maintain propane conversion and propene selectivity through eight reaction-regeneration cycles, demonstrating high stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which significantly impairs the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. To tackle these issues, innovative strategies are being explored, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for additional benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and investigating single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for propylene in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene and bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts improve activity, reduce side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, and the limitations of conventional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly CO2-assisted PDH, to the forefront. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high chromium dispersion, are ideal for CO2-PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites improve propene yield, with dealumination impacting catalytic properties. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites achieves high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH modes with and without CO2 demonstrates the positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal, tackling deactivation issues to enhance stability and recyclability, aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the growing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies focus on understanding the role of active sites and deactivation mechanisms, the impact of particle size on deactivation, and the development of design approaches to improve selectivity and stability. For instance, smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, leading to structure-sensitive side reactions that result in catalyst deactivation. Design strategies aim to reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, thereby addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, crucial for meeting industrial demand for propylene, face challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts are advanced, they suffer from deactivation issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2, is explored to overcome thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is key. Alternative solutions, like solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, are promising but require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method constraints. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, is gaining prominence due to the favorable price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. Strategies include CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows five times higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to the production of active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, crucial for catalyst design. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional PDH, using Cr or Pt catalysts, faces toxicity and ecological harm. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts offer an environmentally friendly solution, forming ZnOx species through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups are crucial for this process. Compared to KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO catalyst triples propene productivity at similar selectivity, demonstrating its potential to enhance PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency, particularly through oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) which leverages the synergy of endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic hydrogen combustion. Catalyst deactivation challenges are being addressed through innovative design strategies, including the use of supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and the creation of membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx-based catalysts' performance is critical, with the nature of the VOx phase impacting selectivity. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques are advancing. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or toxic, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, consuming high energy under standard conditions. To tackle these issues, researchers are exploring low-temperature PDH methods to cut energy use. A groundbreaking approach employs a non-precious CoSn/NC microwave catalyst, where cobalt is the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, enabling efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts suffering from poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, is crucial for understanding the oxidative dehydrogenation process. To overcome thermodynamic limitations and achieve higher selectivity, the reaction must be carried out at a lower temperature. These strategies aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve selectivity through the control of oxygen sites and metal-oxide interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, enhances stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 increase activity and propene selectivity, crucial for overcoming deactivation. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and shale-gas reserves, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging cobalt-based catalysts for their earth abundance and effectiveness. An innovative active site isolation strategy, exemplified by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, with their high activity and selectivity, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies, focusing on surface-bound hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge, prompting the development of innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. Key approaches include the use of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with optimized active sites, which improve selective dehydrogenation and reduce coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial for commercial PDH technologies. Enhancing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and incorporating alloying elements are pivotal in improving catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly with innovative catalyst design, offer a viable solution. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2 and Al2O3 have shown superior catalytic properties. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, for instance, exhibit long-term stability in PDH reactions, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while maintaining 91% propene selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability [3]. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation [6], alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits [7], modifying supports to control coke [8], adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity [9], and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms [10]. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the demands of the chemical industry while overcoming the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, producing active phases under fine structure conditions. The ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative to conventional production methods. Oxidative dehydrogenation processes gain prominence, with innovative catalyst design strategies targeting deactivation issues. Chromium-containing Beta zeolites, characterized by their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are pivotal in enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields efficient catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. The acidity of zeolites plays a crucial role, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieving high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a propylene production method addresses industrial demand and production limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, are developed to overcome catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. These strategies aim to increase selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, crucial for the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are key to understanding PDH, and small particle sizes increase active sites but also diversify local environments, impacting deactivation. Design strategies must balance the need for active sites with the prevention of side reactions that lead to deactivation. The role of valence states of Pt and the impact of geometric and electronic structures on propylene adsorption and side reactions are critical considerations in catalyst design. Understanding deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is essential for designing more stable catalysts. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments, with a focus on reducing activity to increase selectivity. The use of H2 and CO2 in reaction conditions can also positively affect coke elimination. The confinement situation offered by supports can prevent sintering, and regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for meeting growing propylene demand, overcoming traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, though detailed literature is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts, such as metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx), face challenges with rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 is explored to avoid thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons, but results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Alternative solutions, including solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability. Further research is necessary to address these issues and develop effective reaction systems for oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH techniques leverage the price disparity between propane and propylene, emerging as a viable alternative. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes, as highlighted by substantial progress in inhibiting catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance through CADH, increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 exhibits anti-coking properties and higher propene yields. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing limitations of toxic Cr or ecologically harmful Pt catalysts. An innovative method creates eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, a process influenced by defective OH groups. The new ZnO catalyst outperforms commercial alternatives, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions while maintaining similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations by potentially lowering energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, aim to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking. Seeking energy efficiency, researchers are developing low-temperature PDH methods. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, offering a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation addresses catalyst deactivation and energy inefficiency, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modifications, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These advancements address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on improving catalyst performance through structure-reactivity relationships, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site control for balanced activity and selectivity. The MVK mechanism, or lattice oxygen mechanism, is crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies. Oxygen vacancies are then refilled by O2 or CO2, completing the catalytic cycle. However, the reaction products are easily over-oxidized, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Understanding the reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts remains a challenge, with side reactions like deep dehydrogenation and H2O formation requiring consideration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Tuning crystallite size and phase composition, favoring smaller sizes and the monoclinic phase, boosts activity and selectivity to propene, critical for active site creation through lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing cobalt-based catalysts, address the rising demand for propylene and the shortcomings of traditional production methods. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as evidenced by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, which exhibits high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as per Quote [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques have surfaced as a promising alternative. Vanadium oxides, due to their high activity and selectivity, are being explored as efficient PDH catalysts. Innovative strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage, aim to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts slightly reduce dehydrogenation activity but significantly improve stability by preventing coke buildup, addressing deactivation issues in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation, ensuring robust catalysts capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further contribute to improved catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit long-term stability and recyclability through eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion and propene selectivity maintained at high levels. VOX/MCM-41 demonstrates stability in non-oxidative PDH, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, underscoring the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a viable alternative for large-scale production, as highlighted in quote [2]. However, coke formation, as mentioned in quote [3], poses a significant challenge to Pt catalysts, undermining performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote [6]), alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits (quote [7]), modifying supports (quote [8]), adjusting catalyst size (quote [9]), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (quote [10]). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability and stability in PDH processes, as there is a lack of systematic analysis on coke formation on Pt catalysts (quote [17]).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production in response to increasing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially CO2-assisted PDH, is gaining prominence as an alternative production method. Innovative catalysts, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are optimal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly influence propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the critical role of acidity in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, a critical challenge, requires innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. Despite PDH's potential, detailed solutions for catalyst deactivation are underexplored, highlighting a need for further research and development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to enhance selectivity, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken precursor bonds, and the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. As demonstrated by Xiong et al., singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 show 100% conversion of propane, highlighting the potential of these strategies in overcoming deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations have spotlighted PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies in PDH processes address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative methods, as highlighted: 'Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability. Innovative catalyst design is crucial for stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key innovation, combat deactivation, boosting stability and recyclability, thus enhancing PDH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, offers a cost-effective alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle, but innovative design strategies, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are advancing to boost stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, focusing on catalyst design to overcome deactivation. CADH for Al2O3 synthesis boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Innovative V/SiO2 catalyst preparation, like direct co-assembly for V-DMSNs, enhances V5+ species interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 properties and performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' role in VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues, leading to the development of environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts form ZnOx species in situ through a reaction with support OH groups, with defective OH groups playing a critical role. Compared to a KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the new ZnO-based catalyst showed three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, offering a promising solution to catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, while enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Despite progress, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by developing non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This approach reduces energy consumption and coking issues, common in traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, and opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants interacting with surface oxygen to create oxygen vacancies, is central to these processes. Careful temperature control is essential for maximizing selectivity, especially in oxidative PDH, where an added oxidant helps overcome thermodynamic limitations. Advanced catalyst design, such as single-atom catalysts and controlled oxygen sites, is crucial for balancing activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a high-propene-selectivity alternative. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, are key in tackling deactivation issues. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and propene selectivity, outshining tetragonal ZrO2. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, enhancing recyclability and addressing deactivation in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, is a promising propylene production method, addressing traditional limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, as per Quote [2]. An innovative active site isolation strategy, highlighted in Quote [3], significantly boosts catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as noted in Quote [5]. This supports cobalt's long-term utility in PDH and underscores the isolation strategy's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, noted for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on surface structure and hydroxyl group control to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies focus on selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation, and promoting robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures. Optimization methods, such as controlling particle size and alloying elements, further improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer an alternative, focusing on V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 to overcome deactivation. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 achieved high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts demonstrated stability in PDH without gas-phase O2, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showed remarkable stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over 4h and propene selectivity remaining at 91%. These findings highlight the promise of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, including cofeeding reductive gases with propane to reduce coke, alloying platinum with metals like tin for additional benefits, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct conversion method for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making the catalysts low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "To address the growing demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, with catalyst innovation central to addressing deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, aim to enhance stability and recyclability by improving selectivity and reducing coke formation. Smaller particles increase active sites but also diverse local environments, impacting selectivity and stability. Pt-based catalysts show promise, but valence states and electronic properties influence reactivity and selectivity. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals enhance propylene desorption and selectivity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments. Alloying with promoters modulates surface electronic structure and reactivity. Reducible metal oxides improve stability and selectivity. Modifying reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation. Strong metal-support interaction and confinement effects prevent sintering and enhance stability. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies in PDH processes enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, unlike established PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts exemplify strategies that boost stability and recyclability, optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, stands as a promising alternative. Despite its potential, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability, targeting active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    