Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3 supports, affecting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, with propene yields of 1927% over 6 h. The highest STY achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance, achieving 59.5% initial propene yield and 90% stable selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit 18.1% propane conversion and 91% propene selectivity, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, achieves a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. These strategies improve PDH catalysts for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, overcoming limitations of toxic Cr/Pt catalysts. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through high-temperature reactions, offer three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, addressing stability and recyclability issues while being environmentally friendly.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a viable alternative for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements and enhancing efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, improving stability, and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being assessed for selective hydrogen combustion, and the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux and membrane reactors with high surface area is being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques address limitations of conventional production. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Innovative strategies aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, introduced for the first time as a microwave catalyst under MCRM, offers a sustainable and cost-effective route for propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C has become a promising alternative. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face challenges with propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, is crucial for understanding the oxidative process. Temperature control is essential for selectivity, with efforts targeting the activation of the CH bond in propane, a rate-determining step requiring higher temperatures. Research focuses on modifications to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a key process, offering high selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, pivotal for PDH, combat deactivation by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity and activity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 create active sites, improving PDH performance through lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using shale-gas-derived propane, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, particularly in the active site isolation strategy that enhances catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with isolated cobalt oxide sites, exhibits outstanding PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxide catalysts, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence, mitigate deactivation issues, enhancing stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably suppress coke deposition, improving performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing limitations of conventional techniques. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth oxides fortify resistance against coking. Optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size in alloying elements make PDH commercially attractive, meeting industrial demand and adapting to energy scenarios.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, tackling thermodynamic equilibrium and carbon deposition issues. V-based catalysts, notably VOX/MCM-41, demonstrate high stability and recyclability in PDH, achieving full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts sustain high propane conversion and propene selectivity, making them a promising solution for commercial PDH processes, effectively addressing deactivation challenges and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production. However, PDH encounters significant hurdles, notably the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to tackle this issue, including the introduction of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These strategies aim to minimize coke formation, enhance catalyst stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, optimizing propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, PDH emerges as a direct conversion method, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalysts, such as high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts boost activity, minimize side reactions, and offer cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable solutions for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a promising alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are critical for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Challenges remain, such as understanding the fundamental active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms, the influence of particle size on deactivation, and the need for effective regeneration methods. Strategies like the use of bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports, metals, and treatments are being explored to inhibit deactivation, with a focus on reducing coke formation and maintaining catalyst stability through regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, as per undisclosed developments, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting industrial demand for propylene, with catalyst deactivation being a major challenge. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts are being supplanted by metal oxides like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which, however, suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke but risking overoxidation, and CO2 consuming H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but producing less heat. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require frequent regeneration and face low reaction rates, issues that need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts are pivotal, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. To combat catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge, innovative design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, aligning with the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing catalyst design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification on VOx/Al2O3 boosts anti-coking capability, increasing propene yields. CADH synthesizes high surface area Al2O3, affecting catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs enhances V5+ interaction with silica, boosting activity. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from facile reduction of VO bonds, increasing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. Preparation methods and support nature are crucial for tuning active V species proportion and stability, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, notably ZnOsilicalite-1, offer an environmentally friendly solution with three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, as highlighted in quote [7].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges with decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and designing solid oxygen carriers with high flux, are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts using Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with issues of coking and cracking. Direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these challenges, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), enabling efficient propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and offering a sustainable route for abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, primarily uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges of selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form vacancies, is crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation, requiring lower temperatures for higher selectivity in the ODH of propane. These strategies aim to overcome thermodynamic limitations and improve the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, meet growing industrial demand for propylene. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, enhance stability and recyclability. The monoclinic phase exhibits higher activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is critical for creating active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, as evidenced by their performance. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic efficiency. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with high conversion and selectivity, showing no deactivation after extended reaction periods, effectively addressing key challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxide catalysts, offer a viable solution. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Tuning hydroxyl group coverage balances activity and stability, improving overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation by minimizing coke formation. Promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth oxides enhance resistance to coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements are essential for stability and recyclability in PDH processes, critical for commercial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative VOX-based catalysts, such as VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41, address deactivation issues by reducing carbon deposition and avoiding thermodynamic equilibrium limitations. These catalysts demonstrate long-term stability in PDH, maintaining propene selectivity and recoverability through oxidative regeneration, highlighting their commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene has spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable production method (Quote 2). However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation (Quote 3), hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying platinum with metals such as tin (Quote 7), modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single atom catalysts (Quote 10). Computational simulations (Quote 11) are aiding in understanding the deactivation mechanism, crucial for developing effective solutions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations led to PDH techniques, converting propane directly to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation by enhancing activity and stability. These zeolites, with defined structure and adjusted acidity, disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions. Resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative for propylene synthesis. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues and boosts stability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion creates effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly influencing propene yield. Low acidity in the catalyst promotes high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, underscoring the importance of acidity control in enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH addresses catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, effectively meeting industrial needs and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. As shown by Gong and coworkers, single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can increase propylene selectivity while reducing dehydrogenation activity, demonstrating the potential for improved efficiency and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that boost stability and recyclability, critical for meeting industrial demand and overcoming conventional method limitations. Specific strategies remain under development, underscoring the ongoing innovation in this field.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts enable continuous operation, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, uses O2 or CO2; O2 eliminates coke and reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Innovative strategies explore solid oxygen carriers and noble metals for selective hydrogen combustion, requiring frequent catalyst regeneration and addressing toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative, with innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackling deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, offers a cost-effective solution by leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative design strategies, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are pivotal in improving catalytic stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques for propylene production are advancing, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing Al2O3 impacts catalytic performance by varying crystallization temperature. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability, improving catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability, affecting catalytic activity. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to higher proportions of the active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature and metal-support interactions, with preparation methods tuning the stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, crucial for meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts, however, face toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative method now creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, offering three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation and environmental concerns. This breakthrough supports the growing need for sustainable and efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed to enhance stability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of this approach depends on the membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have driven the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking issues. To address these challenges, a novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed for the first time, opening a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, thereby reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being highly active but susceptible to deactivation and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative PDH, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms, leading to oxygen vacancies and a catalytic cycle. Efforts are also directed at understanding elusive reaction mechanisms and pathways, considering side reactions like deep dehydrogenation and H2O formation, to optimize PDH processes and address catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing optimized ZrO2-based catalysts, address industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. These catalysts, with enhanced stability and recyclability through phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, particularly the monoclinic phase, are cost-efficient for industrial PDH processes, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand and production constraints. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized with nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Supported vanadium oxides act as efficient PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies targeting surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial for tackling deactivation issues. These strategies optimize active sites for selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and enhance metal-support interactions, crucial for stability and recyclability in high-temperature PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 enhance stability and recyclability, as demonstrated by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. with high activity, reduced carbon deposition, and full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability over multiple cycles, indicating their potential for commercial PDH processes, crucial in meeting rising industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH catalysts, particularly platinum (Pt), face deactivation challenges due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and exploring single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand and traditional production limitations. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network, offering a path to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, converting propane directly to propylene, address industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites disperse Zn species, minimizing side reactions, making the catalyst cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is a promising solution. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a crucial role. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 over Cr-containing zeolites affects propene formation rates, demonstrating the impact of catalyst design on process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for propylene production in evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a major challenge, is being addressed through innovative design strategies. Active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts are crucial for understanding PDH. Particle size affects the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, impacting deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments. Coke formation, a primary cause of deactivation, can be mitigated by controlling reaction conditions and transferring coke precursors from metal sites to supports. Preventing sintering, achieved through strong metal-support interactions and protective supports, is critical. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by hydrogen reduction can reactivate catalysts, although continuous cycles may not fully restore performance. Innovative approaches, such as encapsulating metal species in zeolite crystals, offer promising solutions for stabilizing metal nanoparticles and maintaining high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Key challenges, notably catalyst deactivation, are addressed through innovative design strategies to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, as highlighted in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and lack full regeneration capability (Quote 2, 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges such as overoxidation with O2 and less heat formation with CO2 (Quote 5, 6). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity issues, necessitating further research for industrial viability (Quote 15, 20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints have spurred the development of PDH techniques, notably through innovative catalyst design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts exemplify strategies that combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thereby improving PDH process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional cracking limitations, nonoxidative PDH emerges as a favorable alternative, leveraging propane-to-propylene price advantages. Despite its success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists. Innovative strategies now focus on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improving stability and recyclability, thus tackling deactivation issues and aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet growing propylene demand, focusing on catalyst stability and recyclability. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance is influenced by crystallization temperature, affecting acid sites and VOx species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial in catalyst design, impacting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues, prompting the development of eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, as per [1], offer three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, as highlighted in [7], effectively tackling deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These methods aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency, with challenges in alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face challenges in decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques are pivotal. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. To tackle these challenges, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed, offering an innovative solution for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach addresses catalyst deactivation issues, enhances stability, and improves recyclability, aligning with the need for sustainable and energy-efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, is pivotal for oxidative dehydrogenation, aiding in overcoming thermodynamic limitations. These strategies seek to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve selectivity through controlled oxygen sites and metal-oxide interfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition, particularly the monoclinic phase, enhance activity and selectivity by releasing lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, crucial for propane activation. This improves stability and recyclability in PDH processes, making them a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, addresses rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, pivotal in PDH, are being optimized through innovative design strategies. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing performance in nonoxidative PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and conventional technique limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, and metal oxides resist coking, ensuring robust catalyst performance and PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative V-based catalysts, notably VOX-SiO2, maintain high stability over eight cycles, with propane conversion rates and propene selectivity demonstrating their commercial potential in PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene has spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a critical production method, directly converting propane to propylene. However, catalyst deactivation, notably through coke formation, poses a significant challenge, affecting performance and stability. Innovative strategies, such as the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals like tin, and optimizing catalyst size, are being developed to mitigate coke formation. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring the method's effectiveness in meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, aligning with industrial needs and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-PDH, emerges as a critical alternative production method. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is essential for enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation significantly boosts catalytic performance in CO2-PDH. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of acidity on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with increasing industrial demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant issue in PDH, is being tackled through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, which exhibit a linear relationship between activity and selectivity, indicating that selectivity decreases as activity increases. Particle size is also crucial, with smaller nanoparticles experiencing more rapid deactivation due to the preferential coverage of uncoordinated active sites by coke. To combat deactivation, efforts are directed at inhibiting coke formation through support modification, metal treatment, and adjustments to reaction conditions. For instance, the addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 improves stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. Alumina, a conventional support, can be modified with alkaline promoters to reduce acidity and curb coke formation. Moreover, changes in reaction conditions, such as the co-feeding of hydrogen and CO2, can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst stability. These design strategies are essential for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, reflecting advancements in the field.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts, notably metal oxides, face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery post-regeneration (Quote 2, 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative dehydrogenation, achieving full paraffin conversion (Quote 5, 6). However, it introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation with CO2. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are explored for selective hydrogen combustion in the SHC reaction (Quote 16), but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates, with some metal oxides being highly toxic (Quote 19). These issues need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key innovation, effectively tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, as evidenced by improved selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face issues like Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine-based regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, overcomes these challenges. This catalyst demonstrates about three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, making it a promising solution for enhanced PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges with decreasing alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area improve efficiency. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms, and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, PDH techniques are evolving to address limitations of traditional production methods. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, while effective, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. Innovations aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These approaches address deactivation issues, focusing on the MVK mechanism and thermodynamic limitations, while computational methods support catalyst development by understanding C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address propylene production challenges by utilizing ZrO2-based catalysts. These catalysts, characterized by smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, significantly improving PDH performance and overcoming deactivation issues, crucial for meeting growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, offer a promising solution for propylene production amidst growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst showcases exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging vanadium oxides as catalysts. Innovative design strategies, notably the control of surface structure and the presence of surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, significantly enhance stability by mitigating coke deposition, thus improving performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Strategies include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts for selective dehydrogenation and coke minimization. Robust catalysts maintain activity at high temperatures, while promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides enhance coking resistance. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts, notably VOX/MCM-41 supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are developed to tackle deactivation issues. As Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate, these catalysts exhibit superior stability and recyclability, with VOX/MCM-41 achieving full recovery through oxidative regeneration, making them promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution for large-scale propylene generation. PDH, an established industrial process, faces the challenge of Pt catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to tackle this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, modifying catalyst supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, is driving the chemical industry towards propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly CO2-assisted PDH, as traditional methods are insufficient. Innovative chromium-containing Beta zeolite catalysts are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the impact of acidity on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Research efforts concentrate on innovative catalyst design to tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, reflecting PDH's dynamic innovation landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. A significant challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites with controlled geometric and electronic properties, the use of bimetallic compounds to balance activity and selectivity, and the modification of supports to inhibit deactivation. Understanding the mechanisms of deactivation, such as coke formation and sintering, is crucial for the design of more stable catalysts. Innovative approaches aim to improve the efficiency and longevity of PDH processes by reducing the formation of coke and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases with smaller particle sizes, affecting the number of active sites and the potential for deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, with their varying valence states, have a significant impact on the reactivity of propane conversion. Bimetallic compounds, like Pt/Cu single-atom alloys, break scaling relationships and improve propylene selectivity. Modifying supports, such as using reducible metal oxides, can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by electron transfer. Changes in reaction conditions, like cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also positively affect coke elimination. Strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) and confinement effects provided by supports can prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles at high temperatures. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability, reflecting ongoing research needs in a landscape of rising industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, as documented in quote [3]. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations, as mentioned in quote [5], but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation, as explained in quotes [9] and [11]. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential for selective hydrogen combustion, as stated in quote [16], yet require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates, as noted in quote [18]. Further research is crucial for developing stable, efficient catalysts for PDH processes, as highlighted by the need for a suitable combination of catalyst material and oxidizing agent, as emphasized in quote [15].", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable solution for rising propylene demand, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts enhance selectivity and efficiency, addressing deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, thus boosting stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shifting energy dynamics, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative to conventional propylene production, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite the ongoing challenge of thermally-induced catalyst deactivation, significant strides have been made in developing design strategies to bolster stability and recyclability. These strategies, encompassing active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are critical in mitigating deactivation issues, as highlighted by advancements in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by employing innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH for VOx/Al2O3 boosts performance through increased Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg addition improves anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to strong V5+ species interaction. VOx/Si-beta zeolites show increased activity with higher acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. These strategies optimize PDH processes by focusing on support nature and metal-support interactions, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues, leading to the development of eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, demonstrate a threefold increase in propene productivity compared to conventional catalysts, while maintaining similar selectivity. Testing under industrial conditions confirms their enhanced stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are crucial. Traditional Cr6 and Pt catalysts are costly, scarce, and prone to coking, necessitating energy-efficient alternatives. Researchers have developed a novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM, addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. This innovation enables high-value propane utilization at lower temperatures, effectively reducing energy consumption, and opens a new route for C3H8 resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with promoters like late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues and improving efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, is crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation. Efforts to improve Pt-based catalysts focus on overcoming thermodynamic limitations and controlling side reactions for higher selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a high-propene-selectivity alternative. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Monoclinic ZrO2 with smaller crystallite sizes outperforms tetragonal ZrO2, boosting propene selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is vital for creating active sites, crucial for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, is a viable propylene production method, addressing growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy, as described in Quote [3], significantly boosts catalytic performance, exemplified by the synthesis of spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers supported on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1), achieving high propane conversion to propene with no apparent deactivation, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Vanadium oxides, with high activity and selectivity, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts to enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, ensuring balanced activity and stability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, promotes selective dehydrogenation and minimizes coke formation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures, are crucial for commercial viability. Strategies to overcome deactivation include using promoters like late transition metals, improving metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size and shape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies for V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirm the superior catalytic properties of V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, achieving high activity and stability in PDH. Sokolov et al. further demonstrate the stability of VOX/MCM-41 catalysts without gas-phase O2 and their full recovery through oxidative regeneration, while Rodemerck et al. validate the link between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, highlighting the suitability of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability in multiple cycles, showcasing their industrial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. However, Pt catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, hampers performance and stability. Strategies to mitigate this include adding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using DFT provide insights into deactivation mechanisms, aiding in the development of more stable and recyclable catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst performance in PDH processes, meeting the growing need for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation issues through innovative design strategies. Using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts enhances stability and recyclability, making them suitable for industrial use due to well-dispersed Zn species and reduced side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are optimal for chromium dispersion, enhancing catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), are pivotal in the oxidative pathway. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion significantly boosts catalytic properties, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high propene selectivity. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals a significant increase in propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalysts in addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that increase the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, which can significantly influence the dehydrogenation process. The challenge of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation is being addressed through the design of catalysts that inhibit the formation of undesired products. Particle size is also a critical factor, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments of exposed atoms, affecting deactivation mechanisms. The electronic states of Pt ions play a significant role in the selectivity and conversion of propane, with Ptx+ ions excelling in propane conversion but not selective for propylene production. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals have shown promise in facilitating propylene desorption and increasing the barrier for deep dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. The geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states of Pt surface atoms significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The deactivation of PDH catalysts is primarily due to coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to a rapid decrease in activity on smaller nanoparticles. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and sintering of Pt nanoparticles. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance requires the inhibition of deactivation, which can be achieved through various synthetic strategies. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms is crucial for the development of more stable Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke deposition, hinders recyclability and stability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but lack the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems (Quote 2). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 shows promise; O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation (Quote 5-6), while CO2 results in less heat formation and may lead to additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers (CeO2, SbO4, In2O3, WO3, PbOx, Tl2O3, BiO3) and noble metals (Pt, Au) offer selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 16), but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates (Quote 19). Further research is needed to resolve these issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a recent focus, enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH techniques offer a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. To address thermally induced deactivation, innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques for propylene production employ innovative catalyst design strategies to address industrial demand. CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosts VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 exhibits anti-coking properties and improved catalytic performance. V-SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing oil-based cracking's limitations. Traditional PDH, using Cr or Pt catalysts, faces toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative method creates eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through OH group reactions at high temperatures, a process critical for the catalyst's activity. This new catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They aim to lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being developed for efficient dehydrogenation. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can potentially cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for catalyst performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts, which are costly, scarce, and prone to deactivation, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed. This catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to reduce coking, is supported by a carbon nitride phase. Utilizing microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), the new method enables direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, significantly reducing energy consumption and opening up new opportunities for the efficient use of abundant propane resources. This innovation addresses the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhances stability and recyclability, making it a promising solution for propylene production in the context of increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts but faces challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements address the MVK mechanism's oxygen vacancy dynamics and the need for temperature control to balance activity and selectivity in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, directly tackling the question's focus on overcoming deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a key process with high propene selectivity. Innovative design strategies, particularly the use of eco-friendly and cost-effective ZrO2-based catalysts, address catalyst deactivation challenges by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, notably the monoclinic phase, to enhance activity, selectivity, and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, addresses rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. A groundbreaking catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Supported vanadium oxides are effective PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Tailored single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial for PDH technologies. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve the use of promoters and optimal metal-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, notably VOX-SiO2 catalysts, offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. These catalysts, optimized for performance, demonstrate superior stability and activity, maintaining high performance over multiple cycles. Propane conversion rates, gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, alongside consistent 91% propene selectivity, underscore the catalyst's potential in commercial PDH processes, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium and carbon deposition challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke formation (quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits (quote 7), modifying supports to control coke (quote 8), adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity (quote 9), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms (quote 10). These approaches aim to improve catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring the continued effectiveness of PDH in meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites disperse Zn species, reduce side reactions, and make the catalysts low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production, directly addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected 130 million tonne demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, are emerging as alternatives to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective CO2-PDH catalysts, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosting propene selectivity and high acidity in AlBeta promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. This illustrates the impact of acidity on catalytic properties, crucial for optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling rising demand and conventional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability for sustainable propylene output.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence. Catalyst deactivation, a major PDH challenge, is being tackled through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These include alloying to adjust surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, defect engineering to modify surface properties, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. Particle size impacts the number of active sites, with the fraction of under-coordinated atoms increasing as particle size decreases (Quote 5), impacting activity. Pt valence states significantly influence propane conversion (Quote 10). A deactivation rate constant (kd) is used to evaluate catalyst stability, with higher kd values indicating faster deactivation (Quote 30). These insights and strategies are crucial for advancing PDH processes for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal, addressing deactivation issues to enhance stability and recyclability, reflecting the evolving energy landscape's demands.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming traditional method limitations. Traditional catalysts (PtSn, CrOx) face deactivation issues, leading to research on alternatives (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) that struggle with rapid deactivation and regeneration inefficiency. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal for effective oxidative dehydrogenation, crucial for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling growing demand and conventional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability, recyclability, selectivity, and efficiency in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, leverage the price differential between propane and propylene, emerging as a viable alternative. Despite commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternatives to traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhance stability and recyclability. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance, with dealuminated Si-beta zeolites and ZrO2 supports increasing surface area and thermal stability. ZrO2 enhances V3+ species for higher activity. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts exhibit a wide performance range, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, advances with ZnO-based catalysts addressing the limitations of toxic Cr and chlorine-requiring Pt catalysts. These innovative catalysts, prepared through reductive treatment, exhibit three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity under industrial conditions, offering enhanced stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing demand for propylene. These techniques aim to lower the energy requirement for dehydrogenation, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux at dehydrogenation temperatures and membrane reactors with high surface area are explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being designed for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially enabling cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking issues, consuming high energy under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH processes that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach involves using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which opens a new route for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, making it a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative PDH, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, impacting catalyst deactivation and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, crucial for propylene production, utilize innovative ZrO2-based catalysts to combat deactivation. Optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, these eco-friendly catalysts enhance propene selectivity and activity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase boost stability and recyclability, addressing industrial demand and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand is met by PDH techniques, converting shale-gas propane. Cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging abundant cobalt, are promising. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. Specifically, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1 zeolite, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation by controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, effectively meeting industrial demand amidst changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, address deactivation issues by promoting selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation, and ensuring robustness against high temperatures, thus enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using V-based catalysts, address propylene demand and traditional production limitations. VOX/MCM-41 and optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate enhanced stability and recyclability, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration and long-term stability in multiple cycles, making them suitable for commercial PDH processes and tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge, undermining the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate deactivation, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism, emphasizing the importance of controlling coke formation for improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by utilizing innovative catalyst design strategies to combat deactivation and enhance stability. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, serving as supports for ZnO catalysts, improve catalytic activity and stability, facilitating dispersion of Zn species and reducing side reactions. These cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts are a promising solution for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected demand for 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of acidity on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, notably through coke formation and sintering, hinders PDH efficiency. Innovative strategies, including alloying to adjust surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and promote redispersion, are being developed. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient catalysts. As demonstrated by Xiong et al., single atom catalysis with Pt on CeO2 achieves 100% propane conversion, highlighting its effectiveness. Additionally, electron-rich Pt on Cu metals, as shown by Gong and coworkers, leads to higher propylene selectivity, underscoring the role of electronic states in dehydrogenation pathways.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling limitations of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH, meeting industrial demands effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the limitations of traditional propylene production methods, catering to growing industrial demand. Catalysts like PtSn and CrOx have been pivotal, yet face challenges such as deactivation from coke deposition and regeneration needs. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, aims to overcome thermodynamic limitations. O2 reduces coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures, but overoxidation risks must be managed. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but produces less heat. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions, but issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts exemplify this, boosting stability and recyclability, and enhancing PDH process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues and aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, synthesized via cationanion double hydrolysis, boost performance with increased Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles, exhibit high activity due to direct co-assembly processes. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts outperform VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to active V3+ species. Support nature is crucial, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, crucial for meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts, however, face toxicity and regeneration challenges. Innovations in ZnO-based catalysts offer an eco-friendly solution, addressing deactivation issues. These catalysts, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, exhibit three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, effectively tackling deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability. This development is pivotal in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, particularly ODH, offer an efficient route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. ODH lowers energy requirements but faces challenges like decreased alkene selectivity with temperature increases due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for cogeneration, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity over VOx catalysts with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may guide the development of efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to the limitations of traditional propane dehydrogenation (PDH) catalysts, which are costly, scarce, or harmful and prone to deactivation, researchers have developed a novel CoSn/NC catalyst for microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This innovation addresses catalyst deactivation challenges by reducing coking and cracking, thus enhancing stability and recyclability. The CoSn/NC catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as the support, enables efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, offering a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based ones facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to address deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. Advanced approaches, including single-atom catalysts and computational methods, are also being investigated to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation, tackling the challenges of high reaction temperatures and thermodynamic limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy landscape changes. ZrO2-based catalysts, especially those with monoclinic phases and smaller crystallite sizes, outperform others by enhancing activity and selectivity. Active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrate the catalyst's potential in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, tackling deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, is a promising propylene production method addressing growing demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with isolated active sites enhancing performance. A specific CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates exceptional PDH efficiency, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing industrial demand and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, known for high activity and selectivity, are key PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence, enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 notably suppress coke deposition, improving stability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies feature single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites for selective dehydrogenation and coke minimization. Robust catalysts, withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and conventional method limitations, PDH techniques using V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2 and Al2O3 are emerging. Bai and Sokolov reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and VOX/MCM-41, respectively, with the latter showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting these catalysts as a promising solution for commercial PDH processes. Rodemerck confirmed VOX/MCM-41's superior properties, attributing it to stable VOX species, addressing deactivation challenges in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative (Quote 1, 2). However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, hinders PDH's efficiency (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (Quotes 6, 7, 8, 9, 10). These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for stable and efficient catalysts in meeting industrial demand (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. A key challenge, catalyst deactivation, is being addressed through innovative design strategies, notably the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts. These zeolites, with their structured framework and controlled acidity, effectively disperse Zn species, minimizing side reactions, and yielding cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a critical solution. As traditional production methods struggle, selective processes like PDH gain importance. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing PDH stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, a key factor for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion has proven effective in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. This approach addresses the challenges of catalyst deactivation, improving stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. These methods convert propane to propylene, addressing the need for increased production. However, catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge, leading to decreased efficiency and selectivity. Innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create specific reaction ensembles, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and promote redispersion of metal nanoparticles. These approaches aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering, thereby enhancing the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. [Quote 50] highlights the effectiveness of separating active metal components to inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions and improve propylene selectivity. [Quote 51] and [Quote 52] demonstrate the promotional effect of Cu on the catalytic performance of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, showing that the interaction between Pt and Cu elevates the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitates propylene desorption. [Quote 53] reports an optimized loading content of Cu that increases propylene yield and selectivity while reducing coke formation. [Quote 54] explains that site-isolated Pt inhibits deep dehydrogenation side reactions by limiting the contact of precursors to a single bond instead of more stable interactions. [Quote 55] shows that Pt/Cu single-atom alloys break the scaling relationship of Pt alloys and improve propylene selectivity up to 90%. [Quote 56] suggests a similar inference for PdIn/SiO2 intermetallic alloys in ethane dehydrogenation. [Quote 57] and [Quote 58] discuss the importance of electron density in weakening metal-carbon bonds, inhibiting coke precursors, and promoting propylene desorption. [Quote 59] explains that alloying with diverse promoters modulates the surface electronic structure and reactivity. [Quote 60] and [Quote 61] demonstrate the impact of Zn amalgamation on the transformation of rate promotion and enhanced propylene selectivity. [Quote 62] shows that the addition of reducible metal oxides improves catalytic stability and propylene selectivity. [Quote 63] discusses the benefits of alumina as a support for platinum-based catalysts. [Quote 64] and [Quote 65] explain the use of alkaline promoters and doping to curb support acidity. [Quote 66] reports the highest propylene selectivity achieved with a specific Zn/(Zn+Mg) ratio. [Quote 67] and [Quote 68] discuss the introduction of metal oxides into alumina supports to enhance interaction and improve catalyst performance. [Quote 69] explains how support modification decreases acidity and modulates dispersion and electronic properties of Pt. [Quote 70] discusses the positive effect of changes in reaction conditions on coke elimination. [Quote 71] and [Quote 72] show that increasing hydrogen pressure reduces coke precursor coverage and increases propylene selectivity. [Quote 73] suggests explanations for the beneficial effects of increased H2 coverage. [Quote 74] discusses the use of CO2 cofeeding to reduce coke formation via the reverse Boudouard reaction. [Quote 75] and [Quote 76] show that modifying CeO2 with Ga3+ enhances oxygen mobility and storage capacity, improving propylene desorption and inhibiting coke formation. [Quote 77] and [Quote 78] discuss the strategy of transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports to prolong catalyst life. [Quote 79] reports a significant decrease in coke amount. [Quote 80] and [Quote 81] explain the drain off effect of Sn addition, allowing coke precursors to migrate from active metals to supports. [Quote 82] notes the lack of direct demonstration of the coke transfer pathway. [Quote 83] and [Quote 84] discuss the influence of Pt cluster size on dehydrogenation pathway and the issue of sintering at high PDH temperatures. [Quote 85] to [Quote 88] explain the causes of metal particle sintering. [Quote 89] to [Quote 93] discuss strategies to inhibit sintering and re-disperse aggregated nanoparticles. [Quote 94] to [Quote 98] explain the benefits of confinement situations offered by supports. [Quote 99] reports better stability of a coated Pt@SnO2/Al2O3 catalyst. [Quote 100] to [Quote 102] discuss the protective effect of nanocarbons and mesoporous materials as supports. [Quote 103] to [Quote 107] explain the use of zeolite crystals to stabilize metal nanoparticles. [Quote 108] to [Quote 110] report the high thermal stability of Pt nanoparticles and single atoms formed within MCM-22. [Quote 111] discusses the effectiveness of regeneration under oxidizing conditions. [Quote 112] notes the limitations of continuous regeneration. [Quote 113] and [Quote 114] explain the role of Sn in redispersion of Pt. [Quote 115] discusses the issue of metal leaching and segregation reconstruction. [Quote 116] emphasizes the need for further understanding of deactivation mechanisms and effective strategies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, tackling deactivation issues to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as highlighted in the quote: 'PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts, including GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery (Quote [2], [3]). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperature but posing overoxidation risks (Quote [5], [6]). Solid oxygen carriers, such as CeO2 and SbO4, are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability (Quote [16], [19]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes, crucial for meeting growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH, notably nonoxidative PDH, offers a viable alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to V5+ species interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 outperforms VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to higher V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods tune active V species proportion and stability, affecting performance. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions, offers an environmentally friendly solution with three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, as demonstrated in testing under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements, but faces challenges like decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored, potentially involving electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed, offering a low-temperature PDH method that reduces energy consumption. This non-precious catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase as the support, opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant can break thermodynamic limitations but requires temperature control for high selectivity. Research is exploring the nature of reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts, considering side reactions such as deep dehydrogenation and H2O formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing ZrO2-based catalysts, tackle growing propylene demand and production limitations by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing activity and selectivity. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes of ZrO2 are critical for active site creation and oxygen release, improving stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH techniques emerge as a viable solution. Cobalt catalysts, noted for their earth abundance and effectiveness, are optimized through active site isolation, significantly enhancing PDH performance. As evidenced, CoOx@NC/S-1 catalysts achieve 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, illustrating innovative strategies for stability and recyclability in response to industrial needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies, like controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, effectively suppressing coke deposition. This enhances catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH emerges as a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies include selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation, and ensuring robust catalysts withstand high temperatures. Employing promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides increases resistance against coking, while optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape boosts catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 supports address deactivation issues in PDH, enhancing stability and recyclability for propylene production. VOX/MCM-41 demonstrates superior performance with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, confirmed by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. Rodemerck et al. link VOX species to deactivation, supporting V-based catalysts for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts show long-term stability over eight cycles, with propane conversion decreasing slowly and high propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale production. However, catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, and modifying catalyst supports. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism and aid in designing more stable and recyclable catalysts for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a direct propane-to-propylene conversion alternative, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues. These zeolites, with structured acidity, enhance catalytic activity and stability by dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions. The resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through enhanced stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "To meet the escalating demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes annually by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as crucial alternatives. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion produces superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with acidity levels in zeolites impacting propene selectivity. These advancements are pivotal for meeting industrial demand and adapting to evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling limitations of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting industrial demand and navigating global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), aiming to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering. Particle size impacts the number of active sites and exposed atoms, affecting deactivation. To inhibit deactivation, modifications to supports and metals are being explored. Coke formation, a primary cause of deactivation, can be mitigated by controlling the electronic and geometric structures of the catalyst surface. Changes in reaction conditions, like cofeeding hydrogen and carbon dioxide, positively affect coke elimination. Preventing sintering and promoting redispersion during regeneration cycles are critical for maintaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as literature highlights the significance of these advancements without specifying details, indicating ongoing research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address traditional propylene production limitations, focusing on catalyst deactivation. PtSn and CrOx catalysts are effective, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, offers full paraffin conversion. O2 eliminates coke, lowers temperatures, but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent regeneration, have low reaction rates, and some are toxic, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, such as supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, enhancing selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are addressing deactivation, improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, focusing on catalyst design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. CADH synthesizes high-surface-area Al2O3, P modification reduces VOx polymerization, and Mg addition boosts anti-coking capabilities, improving VOx/Al2O3 catalyst stability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to V5+ species interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures significantly impact VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 supports enhance catalytic activity, with VOx/ZrO2 being notably more active than VOx/Al2O3. The nature of the support and preparation methods are critical for the formation of active V species, affecting catalyst performance. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and retaining high activity. VOx/ZrO2 demonstrates high propene yields, showcasing its effectiveness as a PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and environmental issues. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have drawbacks due to toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method using commercial ZnO creates eco-friendly supported catalysts, with ZnOx species forming in situ through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups are crucial for this process. Under industrial conditions, the ZnO-based catalyst outperforms conventional KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity over 400 hours.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of traditional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. They aim to reduce energy requirements and improve efficiency, with innovative catalyst design strategies enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, offering cogeneration potential. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts is a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques are crucial. Conventional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to high costs, scarcity, harmful effects, and long-term coking and cracking. To address these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalysts for PDH at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been introduced. This non-precious catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride as support, opens a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures, directly addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods have led to the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to address the limitations of Pt-based catalysts and improve the overall efficiency of PDH for propylene production, considering the MVK mechanism in oxidative dehydrogenation and the need to overcome thermodynamic limitations. The MVK mechanism involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, generating oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant to the reaction feed helps break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to prevent over-oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. Optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts create active sites upon reductive treatment. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, surpassing tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH techniques, utilizing abundant and effective cobalt-based catalysts, address production challenges. An innovative active site isolation strategy, as seen in cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, significantly enhances catalytic performance, achieving high propane conversion to propene with exceptional selectivity and stability, directly addressing catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly those utilizing supported vanadium oxides on γ-Al2O3, offer a promising alternative. These catalysts, with controlled surface structure and hydroxyl groups, exhibit high activity, selectivity, and regeneration, making them effective in nonoxidative PDH processes. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups notably enhance stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design strategies, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation issues by optimizing active sites for selective dehydrogenation and reducing coke formation. These advancements, enhanced by late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, resist coking and improve stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques, particularly using V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like Al2O3 and MCM-41, offer a viable solution. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit high activity and long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, addressing deactivation challenges and positioning them as promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale production. However, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation, alloying Pt with second metals like Sn, and utilizing specific supports and Pt catalyst sizes. Computational simulations based on density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into deactivation mechanisms. There is a need for a systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts, and ongoing research focuses on catalyst regeneration and future improvements. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by improving activity and stability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, disperse Zn species, reduce side reactions, and make ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as an alternative production method. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. High dispersion and redox chromium species are critical for high catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic activity, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieving high propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, crucial for PDH's effectiveness in evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the overall efficiency of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial, as is the role of particle size in exposing diverse local environments that can lead to deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to design more stable catalysts. The use of H2 and CO2 in reaction conditions can also positively impact coke elimination. SMSI can prevent sintering and help re-disperse aggregated nanoparticles during dehydrogenation and regeneration processes. Confinement effects provided by supports can prevent metal cluster sintering. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques have emerged as a viable alternative for propylene production, driven by growing industrial demand and limitations of conventional methods. These techniques tackle catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as highlighted in relevant literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx facing issues of fast deactivation and coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces new challenges: O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation; CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, requiring frequent catalyst regeneration and addressing toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, as supported vanadium oxide catalysts improve selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite thermal deactivation challenges, recent catalyst design advancements, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improve stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. P and Mg modification enhance stability and anti-coking capability. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 supports increase surface area and thermal stability, with VOx/ZrO2 showing higher activity due to V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, addresses these by utilizing defective OH groups for active ZnOx species formation. This catalyst shows three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, offering an environmentally compatible solution to enhance propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by providing energy efficiency. However, they face challenges with decreasing alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to overcome these issues. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of VOx phase in catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are advancing. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts, while effective, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been introduced for the first time, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being highly active but susceptible to deactivation due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with additional promoters and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, governing oxidative PDH, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, which are refilled by O2 or CO2, creating a catalytic cycle. Advanced catalyst design, including single-atom catalysts and oxygen activity tuning, supported by computational methods, optimizes C-H bond activation and selectivity, addressing deactivation issues and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, meeting industrial demand and overcoming conventional method limitations. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhance propene selectivity and stability, addressing catalyst deactivation issues. This design strategy boosts recyclability, making PDH processes eco-friendly and cost-effective.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH using shale-gas propane emerges as a viable solution. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with isolated active sites enhancing performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing supported vanadium oxides, is a viable propylene production method. It tackles catalyst deactivation by controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, suppressing coke deposition. This enhances stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes, addressing industrial demand and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with tailored active sites, ensure selective dehydrogenation and minimal coke formation, sustaining commercial PDH technologies at high temperatures with maintained activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 supports tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. demonstrated high activity and stability with mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts. Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH performance using VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, underscoring V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (quote [2]). However, Pt catalyst deactivation due to coke formation (quote [3]) poses a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote [6]), alloying Pt with metals such as Sn for additional benefits (quote [7]), modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size (quote [9]), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (quote [10]). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability and stability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, offer a viable alternative for propylene production amidst rising industrial demand. These catalysts address deactivation challenges, enhancing stability and recyclability, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, making them cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand of 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, where the number of redox Cr sites correlates with propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, showcasing the effectiveness of catalyst design strategies in meeting industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH presents a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, directly tackling industrial challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding and manipulating the fraction of active sites on catalysts, which can significantly influence deactivation, is crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts. As Quote [1] highlights, the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH are not yet fully understood, emphasizing the need for further research. Quote [4] underscores the challenge of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation, while Quote [30] introduces the concept of a deactivation rate constant, indicating the importance of stability in PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with evolving design strategies that boost stability and recyclability, addressing rising demand and production constraints. Specific strategies are under development to further enhance process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Traditional catalysts like PtSn and CrOx face challenges such as noble metal loading and stability issues. Alternative catalysts, including metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx), deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 shows promise, lacking thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a propylene production alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which boost stability and recyclability, enhancing selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH techniques emerge as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but significant progress has been made in PDH catalyst design to enhance stability and recyclability, focusing on active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    