Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies are addressing the challenges of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production, focusing on overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts synthesized through the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) show improved performance with optimized crystallization temperatures and vanadium loadings. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits and enhances catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance with high propene yields and stable selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high STYs due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica support. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. These strategies, including support modifications and vanadium doping levels, contribute to the development of more active and stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological harm issues. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, addressing deactivation challenges. These catalysts, like ZnOsilicalite-1, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods through energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals enable selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux improve efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, necessitating further catalyst design advancements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking, with high energy consumption under conventional modes. To address these, innovative low-temperature PDH methods are being developed to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst has been introduced for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride for support, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the limitations of conventional methods and meeting the increasing demand for propylene in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH stands out as an efficient propene production method. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, address deactivation challenges by enhancing activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2, thus improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing cobalt-based catalysts, are a viable solution for increasing propylene production. An innovative active site isolation strategy, as evidenced by spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, significantly boosts catalytic performance. This design achieves a propane conversion of 40% and propene selectivity of over 97%, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH offers a viable solution. Vanadium oxides, as PDH catalysts, are pivotal due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration potential. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling catalyst surface structure under reaction conditions to mitigate deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Notably, surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, significantly boosting performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts enhance stability and recyclability. Optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements minimize coke formation, ensuring robustness at high temperatures. Late transition metals and metal oxides as promoters increase resistance to coking, facilitating selective dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable solution. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3 tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for conditions, show superior activity and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. highlight the high activity and stability of V-based catalysts on Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports, with VOX/MCM-41 demonstrating full recovery through oxidative regeneration, underscoring their commercial PDH potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have led to propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Pt catalysts in PDH, however, face deactivation due to coke formation, which significantly impacts performance and stability. Innovative strategies to address this include the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing propylene demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand by bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts improve activity, minimize side reactions, and are cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and boosts stability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion on Beta zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high selectivity to propene, while redox cycles of Cr sites contribute to propene yield. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive impact on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, underscoring the catalyst's role in optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, reflecting the evolving techniques in this dynamic field.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. A major challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. Innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, including alloying to modulate surface electronic structures, incorporating reducible metal oxides to improve stability and selectivity, and applying strong metal-support interactions to prevent sintering. Modifying reaction conditions, such as co-feeding hydrogen or CO2, can also help reduce coke formation. These strategies aim to optimize PDH catalysts for enhanced efficiency and recyclability, addressing the primary cause of catalyst deactivation as highlighted by Quote 26, and clarifying active sites and deactivation mechanisms as noted in Quote 2.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability, critical for meeting rising industrial demand and adapting to evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Challenges persist, including catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke deposition, and the inability to fully recover activity. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but deactivate rapidly. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces new challenges, such as overoxidation with O2 and less heat generation with CO2. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being studied for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial application. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability, recyclability, selectivity, and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective solution, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermal deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, are effectively addressing deactivation issues, improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques for propylene production address industrial demand through innovative catalyst design. P modification on VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification aids in anti-coking and boosts catalytic performance. The CADH approach synthesizes Al2O3 with high surface area, affecting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. Direct co-assembly for V-DMSNs enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Si-beta zeolites provide high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to the reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, increasing V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Traditional PDH catalysts face toxicity and chlorine use issues, prompting the development of environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts form ZnOx species in situ, enhancing stability and recyclability. Notably, the new catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, as evidenced by testing against a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements and enhancing efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, improving stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques are evolving to address catalyst deactivation and high energy consumption. Innovative CoSn/NC catalysts, using cobalt as the active site and tin to minimize coking, are developed under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This novel approach opens new avenues for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, enhancing stability and recyclability while reducing energy use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these challenges, innovative design strategies are being developed, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving efficiency and addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design. These catalysts, optimized in monoclinic form and smaller sizes, create active sites by releasing lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, surpassing tetragonal ZrO2 in activity and selectivity to propene. This enhancement leads to improved stability and recyclability in PDH processes, catering to growing industrial demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, is a promising propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates outstanding PDH performance, achieving significant propane conversion and high propene selectivity, with no deactivation, showcasing innovative design strategies for stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH using supported vanadium oxides is a promising alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Key challenges, notably catalyst deactivation, are addressed through innovative design strategies. Techniques include using single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve employing promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to enhance resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and incorporating alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, notably through V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, with mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts showing high activity and stability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for conditions, exhibit exceptional long-term stability in PDH, maintaining propane conversion at 55% and propene selectivity at 91% over eight cycles, highlighting their commercial potential by avoiding thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges due to catalyst deactivation, particularly from coke formation, which undermines performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, including adding reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, addressing industrial demand by bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with optimized acidity and textural properties, boost catalytic activity, minimize side reactions, and are reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand forecasted to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is becoming a crucial alternative to conventional production methods. Selective processes, including PDH, are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, highlighting the critical role of catalyst design in optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting growing demand and navigating global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites with specific geometric and electronic properties to improve selectivity and prevent side reactions that lead to deactivation. Particle size is crucial, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments, affecting reactivity. The interaction between intermediates and the catalyst's surface is critical, as it influences propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Deactivation often results from coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to decreased catalytic activity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation involve modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. For instance, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. Alumina, a conventional support, can be modified with alkaline promoters to reduce acidity and curb coke formation. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as the co-feeding of H2 and CO2, can positively impact coke elimination. The confinement of metal nanoparticles within supports can prevent sintering and maintain stability at high temperatures. These design strategies are crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to boost stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition and lack of full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, fully converts paraffins by combusting hydrogen, with O2 and CO2 as leading oxidants, each presenting unique advantages and challenges. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, including solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity for industrial viability. Further research is necessary to address these issues and improve PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and conventional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting demand and adapting to energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 improves VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, boosting stability. Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial, influencing metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of toxic Cr and Pt catalysts. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, addresses these issues. Defective OH groups are crucial for the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO catalyst exhibits three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, offering a promising solution to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial demand and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. Challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures persist, but innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high oxygen flux are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts, which are expensive, scarce, or harmful and suffer from coking and cracking, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This innovation operates at lower temperatures, significantly reducing energy consumption. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to prevent coking, and carbon nitride as support, offers a sustainable and efficient route for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and high energy use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts that face issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovations in catalyst design, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, or lattice oxygen mechanism, is pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants interact with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. These advancements seek to optimize the PDH process, addressing catalyst deactivation and meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design. ZrO2-based catalysts, notably in the monoclinic phase, boost activity and selectivity to propene, surpassing tetragonal ZrO2. Cost-effective and reductively treated, these catalysts release lattice oxygen, generating unsaturated Zr cations for propane activation, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, is a viable propylene production method, addressing traditional limitations. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing stability over 10 hours at high temperatures, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Vanadium oxide catalysts, active and selective with regeneration capabilities, are pivotal. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These include employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation, optimizing metal-support interactions, particle size, and shape, and using promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, notably through V-based catalysts such as VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2. These catalysts, supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, exhibit high activity and stability. VOX/MCM-41's full recovery after oxidative regeneration underscores its commercial PDH potential, effectively addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical production method, addressing limitations of traditional routes. PDH, a cornerstone in industry, faces catalyst deactivation challenges, notably coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies, such as reductive gas cofeeding, Pt-Sn alloying, support modification, catalyst size adjustment, and single atom catalyst exploration, are developed to mitigate coke formation. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with industrial needs and technological advancements. Understanding the nature and origin of coke, as well as kinetic aspects of its formation, is crucial for catalyst design and regeneration, ensuring future improvements in PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve activity, reduce side reactions, and are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected demand for propylene reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes are emerging as crucial alternatives to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion significantly boosts catalytic performance, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene. Redox cycles involving Cr sites have a significant impact on propene yield, as evidenced by the correlation between the number of redox Cr sites and propene yield up to 2wt % of Cr.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, innovating catalyst design to address deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability, critical for both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include optimizing the fraction of under-coordinated atoms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, which are crucial for propylene production while minimizing side reactions and catalyst deactivation. Particle size is a critical factor, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments. The goal is to develop catalysts that are selective for propylene production and can withstand the rigors of PDH processes, including high temperatures and complex atmospheres, without significant deactivation or sintering. For instance, Xiong et al. reported that the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, where Pt atoms have been acknowledged to be bonded onto CeO2 via the combination of [Pt2+O4] single atoms, illustrating a successful design strategy to address catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, as highlighted in current literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods and rising industrial demand. Catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke deposition, is a significant challenge. Innovative design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, shows potential; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Resolving these issues is crucial for the industrial viability of PDH techniques.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively addresses rising propylene demand and production constraints. These catalysts combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for efficient propylene production in evolving industrial contexts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and oil-based cracking limitations, nonoxidative PDH techniques offer a viable alternative due to the propane-propylene price disparity. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but innovative design strategies, including active site regulation and support modification, significantly enhance stability and recyclability, addressing key issues in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures significantly influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability, crucial for metal-support interactions. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Preparation methods can optimize the proportion and stability of active V species, crucial for catalyst design. V-based catalyst performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, tackling the limitations of toxic Cr and regeneration-requiring Pt catalysts. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, developed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, addresses these issues. This catalyst, featuring active ZnOx species formed by defective OH groups, significantly boosts propene productivity by three times under industrial conditions, as evidenced in comparative tests with commercial alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency by utilizing innovative catalyst design strategies. Challenges arise with temperature increases, leading to decreased alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for high surface area are crucial in overcoming these challenges. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have driven the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is also energy-intensive. To address these issues, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) for the first time. This innovative approach offers a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with metals like Ga and Sn and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative PDH, involves reactants interacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface, followed by oxygen vacancy formation and subsequent oxidation. To prevent over-oxidation and achieve higher selectivity, reactions are conducted at lower temperatures. Advanced catalyst designs, such as single-atom catalysts and oxygen site control, are being explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene by utilizing innovative ZrO2-based catalysts. Optimized by phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, particularly in the monoclinic phase, these catalysts enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, significantly improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, addresses rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized for PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst (CoOx@NC/S-1) achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, overcoming deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of conventional methods. Vanadium oxide catalysts, pivotal for their activity and regeneration, are enhanced through innovative design strategies. Controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups suppresses coke deposition, crucial for balancing activity and stability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts enhance stability and recyclability by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, with optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size, are crucial for commercial PDH success, improving performance and withstanding high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, notably V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, emerge as a viable alternative. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit notable stability and recyclability in PDH, maintaining high propene selectivity over multiple cycles. The VOX/MCM-41 catalyst's full recovery through oxidative regeneration underscores its stability and commercial potential, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, addressing the shortfall in supply. However, Pt catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Innovative strategies, such as cofeeding reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst stability. These advancements are crucial for improving the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, making them more viable in the face of increasing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH directly converts propane to propylene, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites disperse Zn species, minimizing side reactions, and produce active ZnO clusters under controlled acidity, making them cost-effective and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With a projected demand for 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion on Beta zeolites significantly improves CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts, as demonstrated in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propylene production method, meeting industrial demand and overcoming traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as highlighted in evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. For instance, the fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as metal particles shrink, affecting the number of active sites. Pt-based catalysts, with their electronic states, significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation is crucial for improved performance, with strategies focusing on support modification, metal properties, and treatment methods. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms and proposing effective strategies are key to advancing PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations have propelled PDH as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting industrial demand for propylene, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts enable continuous operation, they face stability and energy efficiency issues. Alternative catalysts suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable solution. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a pivotal innovation, combat deactivation, bolstering stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thus addressing core challenges in a shifting energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "PDH, notably nonoxidative PDH, is a viable alternative for propylene production due to the favorable price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts but show significant promise in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration hurdles. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, prepared through reductive treatment, addresses these issues. This catalyst, featuring active ZnOx species, exhibits three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, offering a promising solution for enhanced PDH processes, as highlighted in quote [3] and demonstrated in quote [7].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements for dehydrogenation (Quote 2). Challenges remain with alkene selectivity and catalyst deactivation, particularly in oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) where innovative catalyst design is crucial (Quote 3). Strategies include using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 10) and designing solid oxygen carriers with high flux (Quote 13). Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 11), and membrane reactors with high surface area improve efficiency (Quote 14). NiOx-based catalysts are being developed for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation (Quote 40). The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion remains (Quote 22). Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation (Quote 52). Potassium plays a role in minimizing the undesired influence on alkene selectivity in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed. This non-precious catalyst operates under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, addressing the need for reduced energy consumption and offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being prevalent despite challenges with selectivity, deactivation, and stability at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These approaches tackle deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, particularly addressing the MVK mechanism's challenges in oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants interact with surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies. The evolution of PDH as a viable solution for propylene production is driven by the need to address catalyst deactivation challenges and meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key process for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, particularly in the monoclinic phase with smaller crystallite sizes, demonstrate superior activity and selectivity, making them eco-friendly and cost-effective for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand by converting propane to propene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst exhibits outstanding PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing a promising solution to catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable solution. Vanadium oxides, as PDH catalysts, boast high activity, selectivity, and regeneration. Innovative design strategies focus on surface structure control to minimize coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability, particularly in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metals, combats deactivation by minimizing coke formation. Promoters, such as late transition metals and metal oxides, enhance resistance against coking. Optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability, ensuring PDH's commercial viability in the face of growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are optimized for enhanced stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled preparation, exhibit superior activity and stability. Bai et al. confirmed high activity with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH performance and full recovery with oxidative regeneration for VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene has propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising production method (Quote 2). However, Pt catalysts in PDH face significant deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance (Quote 3). To address this, innovative strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as Sn (Quote 7), adjusting Pt catalyst size (Quote 9), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (Quote 10). These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting growing propylene demand and overcoming traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and conventional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a growing demand for propylene, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion enhances catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, demonstrating the effectiveness of these design strategies in enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical solution for growing propylene demand, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, pivotal in the dynamic energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, particularly in tackling catalyst deactivation. These strategies include optimizing active sites and understanding deactivation mechanisms, influenced by particle size, which impacts selectivity and stability. Smaller particles increase active sites but diversify local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. The challenge lies in the structure sensitivity of side reactions, leading to the formation of undesired products and catalyst deactivation. Design strategies aim to improve selectivity towards propylene production while minimizing the formation of coke, a primary cause of deactivation. The electronic and geometric states of active sites significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Understanding these mechanisms is essential for the development of more stable and selective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable solution for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, critical for global energy demands.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are vital for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts, while effective, face stability and energy efficiency challenges. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, with limited recovery through regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. CO2 cofeeding may increase coke deposition but can also gasify it, affecting catalyst performance through competitive adsorption. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, requiring frequent catalyst regeneration and addressing low reaction rates and toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Vanadium oxide catalysts, pivotal in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH, enhance selectivity and efficiency, addressing stability and recyclability issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, focusing on stability and recyclability, have shown promise. Strategies include active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges while aligning with global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternatives to traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance, including CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg modification to boost anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ species interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species, crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on surface VOx species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer environmental compatibility and higher propene productivity, as demonstrated in comparison to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are addressing the limitations of traditional propylene production methods by enhancing stability and recyclability through innovative catalyst design. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux are being developed. Membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored for improved efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being investigated for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being studied, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing the challenges of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are expensive, scarce, and prone to deactivation from coking and cracking, innovative strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, utilizing microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been introduced to address these issues. This catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce coking, and carbon nitride as the support, offers a new, efficient route for propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing the need for reduced energy consumption and high-value conversion of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C. Challenges include poor propylene selectivity and fast deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies, is pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation. Temperature control is crucial for high selectivity. Computational methods aid in understanding C-H bond activation and screening potential catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address limitations in traditional propylene production. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity, critical for propane activation, solidifying PDH's position as a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand highlights PDH techniques using shale-gas propane as a solution. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with isolated active sites enhancing performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates outstanding PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, PDH using supported vanadium oxides emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, mitigate deactivation by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight PDH as a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, address deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures, are essential for commercial PDH, with optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, notably through innovative catalyst design. V-based catalysts, particularly on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, exhibit high activity and stability, overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing recyclability, making them promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces significant hurdles with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hampers catalytic performance and stability (Quote 3). To tackle this issue, innovative design strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to significantly reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Quote 7), modifying supports (Quote 8), adjusting catalyst size (Quote 9), and exploring single atom catalysts (Quote 10). These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring efficient propylene production methods that align with the demands of a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by directly converting propane, with innovative catalyst design strategies like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts. These zeolites improve catalytic activity, disperse Zn species, reduce side reactions, and make ZnO catalysts low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, effectively overcoming deactivation challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand of 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their unique structure and high thermal and acid stability, are optimal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly boost propene yield, with dealumination proving pivotal to catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites facilitates high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the impact of catalyst design on PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify local environments, impacting deactivation rates. The interaction between metals and supports, such as Pt on CeO2, can stabilize nanoparticles and prevent deactivation. Additionally, the control of reaction conditions, like the addition of H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst stability. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes, as evidenced by the role of particle size in active site distribution (Quote 3) and the stabilization effect of Pt on CeO2 (Quote 91). Furthermore, adjusting reaction conditions can significantly impact catalyst performance, as seen with the positive effects of H2 and CO2 on coke reduction (Quotes 71, 74).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability, aligning with shifting global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes but face challenges like noble metal loading and stability issues. Alternative catalysts such as GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 shows promise; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation (Quote 9), while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition (Quote 11). Solid oxygen carriers like CeO2 and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 16), but issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity (Quote 19) must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling limitations of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thereby improving PDH efficiency and selectivity in response to rising industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH emerges as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, address thermally induced deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming catalyst deactivation. Innovations like CADH for Al2O3 synthesis boost VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification curbs coke deposits, improving catalytic activity. V/SiO2 catalysts, such as V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ species-silica interaction. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from higher V3+ species proportions. Catalyst design considers support nature and metal-support interactions. Preparation methods can adjust the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr or Pt catalysts have toxicity or ecological harm issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, overcomes these challenges, offering environmental compatibility. This catalyst, leveraging defective OH groups for active ZnOx species formation, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) lowers energy requirements, with supported oxides enhancing selective hydrogen combustion. Doped ceria improves selectivity, while membrane reactors with high oxygen flux and surface area optimize efficiency. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration, offering alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges include decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed, potentially enabling electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, crucial for addressing deactivation issues and improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are expensive, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, researchers are innovating. These catalysts have high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To address these issues, a new PDH method at lower temperatures is being developed to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, introduced for the first time as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode, offers a solution. This innovation tackles catalyst deactivation, enhances stability and recyclability, and enables high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being widely used despite challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with promoters and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to optimize Pt-based catalyst performance, ensuring higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. The MVK mechanism and temperature control in oxidative PDH are crucial to prevent over-oxidation, while the activation of the CH bond in propane, a rate-determining step, requires high temperatures, highlighting the importance of catalyst stability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. ZrO2-based catalysts, known for their environmental friendliness and cost-efficiency, offer high propene selectivity. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, particularly the monoclinic phase and smaller sizes, enhances stability and recyclability, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH techniques using shale-gas propane offer a viable alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with the active site isolation strategy enhancing performance. A novel catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using vanadium oxide catalysts, offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative design strategies control the catalyst's surface structure, notably the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by promoting selective dehydrogenation and reducing coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are essential for commercial PDH. Optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size enhance stability and recyclability, directly addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques, particularly using V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3, offer a viable alternative. Studies highlight the superior catalytic properties of these catalysts, demonstrating high activity, stability, and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized to avoid thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and minimize carbon deposition, show full recovery after oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species, making V-based catalysts promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods highlight the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, already in industrial use, encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which significantly undermines performance and stability (quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote 6), alloying platinum with metals like tin (quote 7), modifying supports (quote 8), adjusting catalyst size (quote 9), and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with structured acidity, effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions. The resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through precise design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected demand for propylene reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of alloying and dealloying to modify the electronic and geometric properties of catalysts, single atom catalysis to maximize active sites while minimizing deactivation, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and improve dispersion. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Furthermore, Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, illustrating the potential of alloying in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability, aligning with industrial needs and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Catalysts like PtSn and CrOx face deactivation issues, prompting the development of innovative design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic constraints but introduces challenges such as overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity concerns. Further research aims to optimize catalysts and oxidizing agents for industrial viability, focusing on overcoming catalyst deactivation and improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. While thermally induced deactivation poses a challenge, recent catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have significantly improved stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. Strategies include CADH for high-surface-area Al2O3, P and Mg modification to reduce VOx polymerization and coking, and V/SiO2 catalyst preparation for enhanced interaction and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts show increased activity due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. These advancements improve catalytic performance and stability, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is crucial for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and environmental drawbacks. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally friendly solution. Defective OH groups are key for active ZnOx species formation. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, this catalyst triples propene productivity while maintaining similar selectivity, effectively tackling PDH catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored, offering potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, impacting propene selectivity. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Existing Cr6 and Pt catalysts, while effective, are costly, scarce, and toxic, prone to coking and cracking, and have high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. New PDH methods at lower temperatures are desired to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) opens a route for efficient propane utilization, enhancing stability and recyclability, and offering a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability by controlling oxygen sites on the catalyst surface, balancing activity and selectivity, and reducing byproduct formation. The MVK mechanism, pivotal for oxidative PDH, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, which are then refilled by O2 or CO2, forming a catalytic cycle. These design strategies address thermodynamic limitations and the need for higher temperatures in PDH, ensuring efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing ZrO2-based catalysts, optimize phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing propylene production. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase boost PDH efficiency. ZrO2's capability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, addressing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, show exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion to propene with >97% selectivity and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, thanks to the active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, central to PDH, are optimized by controlling surface structure, specifically managing hydroxyl group coverage. This innovation curbs coke deposition, a primary deactivation cause, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting industrial needs and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To combat catalyst deactivation, advanced catalysts with tailored active sites are developed, focusing on enhanced selectivity and reduced coke formation. Strategies include using late transition metals, main-group metals (Sn, Ga), and metal oxides to boost resistance against coking, optimizing metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size and shape for improved stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques, particularly using V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are emerging as viable alternatives. VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate high activity, stability, and recyclability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration and optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintaining propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple cycles in non-oxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH catalysts, particularly platinum (Pt), face deactivation challenges due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network, aiming to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements are crucial for meeting the growing demand for propylene while navigating the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, tackle deactivation issues by enhancing catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with controlled acidity, disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, while small ZnO clusters act as active phases. The catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand of 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are being augmented by propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Alternative PDH processes, including oxidative and nonoxidative methods, are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight PDH as a viable solution, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design for enhanced stability and recyclability, crucial for industrial needs and energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thus boosting the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also the diversity of exposed atoms, which can lead to deactivation. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as particle size decreases, affecting the selectivity and stability of the catalyst. Design strategies must consider the geometric and electronic states of the catalyst to influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The first CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, and the energy barriers for cracking and dehydrogenation must be carefully managed. Catalyst deactivation is primarily due to coke formation, which covers active sites and blocks reactant access. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and manage the electronic and geometric properties of the catalyst. The stability of Pt-based catalysts can be enhanced by understanding and addressing deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are vital for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts dominate PDH, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation and coke deposition issues (Quote 2,3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5,6) but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management (Quote 9). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion potential (Quote 16), yet require frequent regeneration and have toxicity concerns (Quote 19,20). Further research is crucial for enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability, developing effective oxidative dehydrogenation systems (Quote 4,15).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovations in catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite thermally induced deactivation challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies, such as active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, significantly advance stability and recyclability, addressing key PDH process issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternatives to traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH method for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the direct co-assembly process. Gelation and calcination temperatures significantly influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, as demonstrated by the enhanced performance of VOx/ZrO2 and VOx/Si-beta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, tackling the limitations posed by toxic Cr and chlorine-reliant Pt catalysts. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, environmentally compatible and formed through reactions with support OH groups at high temperatures, demonstrate significantly higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. However, they face challenges with alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and proton-conducting membrane reactors, enhance stability and recyclability. Potassium minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity, while doped ceria improves selectivity in hydrogen combustion. Cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy is explored in membrane fuel cell reactors. However, VOx catalysts struggle with decreased propene selectivity at higher conversions. Supported oxides of p-block metals and NiOx-based catalysts are being investigated for their electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques are advancing. Existing Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and direct PDH under conventional reaction mode is energy-intensive. Innovative design strategies are being developed for PDH at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, opening new avenues for efficient, low-temperature utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies that can be refilled by O2 or CO2, creating a catalytic cycle. Efforts to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation include adjusting acid-base properties and controlling oxygen site ratios on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable solution, offering high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, address deactivation issues by enhancing activity and selectivity. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is crucial for active site creation, significantly boosting PDH performance, stability, and recyclability in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, driven by propene demand and shale-gas reserves, offers a viable propylene production method. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial. The active site isolation strategy, as seen in the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, significantly enhances PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques are gaining prominence. Innovative design strategies for vanadium oxide catalysts, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage, are being developed to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts play a critical role in inhibiting coke formation, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation and reducing coke formation. Robust catalysts with enhanced metal-support interactions and controlled particle size are pivotal for PDH's success, ensuring stability and recyclability at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques using V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 offer a viable alternative. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirmed the superior catalytic activity and stability of V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports, respectively, in PDH reactions. These catalysts exhibit high resistance to deactivation and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, suitable for commercial PDH processes. Rodemerck et al. further validated their stability and recyclability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining high propane conversion rates and propene selectivity. This underscores the potential of V-based catalysts to address industrial needs and environmental concerns in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene has spotlighted the limitations of traditional production methods, leading to the prominence of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, a direct route for propylene production, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges posed by the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, converting propane to propylene, meet industrial demand and overcome production limitations. Innovative catalysts, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO clusters, enhance stability and recyclability, improving activity and reducing side reactions for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the significance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as an alternative production method. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion on Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a crucial role. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 shows enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalysts in addressing industrial challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the need for increased production. However, catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge, leading to the development of innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH processes. Active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are crucial for understanding PDH, and small particles, while increasing active sites, also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, impacting deactivation. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome these challenges, ensuring the longevity and efficiency of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. As highlighted, 'PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and rising industrial demand. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but introduces overoxidation risks, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat formation and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, as a promising alternative for propylene production, address industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key innovation, combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional oil-based cracking limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing catalytic performance via increased Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ species interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 catalyst performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propylene production alternative, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed via OH group reactions above 550C, offer an eco-friendly solution. These catalysts, featuring defective OH groups, demonstrate triple the propene productivity at similar selectivity, marking a significant advancement in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency challenges. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of this approach depends on the membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. (Quote 2) Direct dehydrogenation of lower alkanes is energy-intensive, but oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower energy requirements. (Quote 3) Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design. (Quote 6) Potassium minimizes the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity. (Quote 7) Insights into the reaction mechanism, alkene selectivity, and catalyst stability are crucial for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. (Quote 17) Despite extensive research, there is no ODH catalyst that gives a propene yield sufficient to be attractive to industry. (Quote 27) Titration of the acid site of support with alkali ions increases propene selectivity but decreases propane conversion. (Quote 33) The unprecedented selectivity of VOx/MgAlO may be attributed to the heterolytic CH activation pathway, the reduction of V5+ to V3+, and the weak surface acidity of the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address the limitations of costly and scarce Cr6 and Pt catalysts, which are prone to coking and cracking. Aiming to reduce energy consumption, researchers have developed a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and a carbon nitride phase as support, opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures, effectively overcoming challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being highly active but susceptible to deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, is crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation. Efforts focus on balancing activity and selectivity through single-atom catalysts, acid-base property tuning, and oxygen site ratio control, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH emerges as a key process with high selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts address deactivation issues, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase boosting activity and selectivity to propene. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, making it effective in PDH, particularly in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using shale-gas-derived propane, is a vital method for meeting the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, as evidenced by the exceptional performance of the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, which achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH using vanadium oxide catalysts emerges as an alternative. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical solution for propylene production, addressing growing demand and conventional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke, and sustaining activity at high temperatures, ensuring stability and recyclability for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior activity and stability. Bai et al. reported high activity for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to maintain stability in PDH without gas-phase O2, fully recovering with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed VOX/MCM-41's superior properties, attributing it to VOX species stability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrated remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining 91% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, PDH emerges as a vital production method, addressing traditional technique limitations. Catalyst deactivation, notably from coke formation, is a significant hurdle. Innovative strategies, including hydrogen cofeeding, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, support modification, adjusting Pt size, and exploring single atom catalysts, aim to reduce coke and enhance stability. Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms, guiding catalyst design to improve recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting global energy demands.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues. These zeolites disperse Zn species, minimize side reactions, and produce cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable ZnO catalysts suitable for industrial use, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a pivotal role in the oxidative pathway. The number of redox Cr sites directly correlates with propene yield, highlighting the importance of high chromium dispersion. Low acidity in dealuminated zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a promising propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability, addressing industrial demand and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge, is being addressed through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions. The fraction of active sites increases as metal particles shrink, but this can lead to deactivation due to side reactions. Design strategies aim to control the geometric and electronic states of the catalyst to inhibit these reactions, such as by modifying support acidity and coke mobility. The interaction between metals and supports, like Pt and CeO2, can lead to highly stable clusters that resist sintering and maintain activity even at high temperatures. These advancements are crucial for improving the overall performance of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. It innovatively addresses catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, as literature highlights.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene, facing challenges with alternative catalysts that deactivate due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery (Quote [2], [3]). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperatures but risking overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation (Quote [5], [6]). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored alternatives, requiring frequent catalyst regeneration and facing issues like low reaction rates or toxicity, needing resolution for industrial viability (Quote [15], [20]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving efficiency and selectivity in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a hurdle, yet recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, and direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, enhance stability and performance. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 show improved activity, with VOx/ZrO2 being notably more active than VOx/Al2O3 due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design must consider support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation, crucial for surface VOx species stability. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance range of V-based catalysts is significant, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, overcoming oil-based process limitations. Existing PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts encounter toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst offers an environmentally friendly solution, with supported ZnOx species boosting activity. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst showcased superior propene productivity, marking a significant leap in PDH technology, as evidenced by a threefold increase in propene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while doped ceria shows promise as a solid oxygen carrier. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially enabling cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt catalysts that are costly, scarce, or harmful, and prone to coking and cracking. A focus on reducing energy consumption in PDH processes, particularly under conventional reaction modes, has led to the development of a novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst. This non-precious catalyst, operating under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offers a promising route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing the need for cost-effective, stable, and recyclable catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including deactivation and selectivity issues. Innovative strategies, such as doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These advancements are critical for meeting the projected global demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million metric tons by 2023. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies, is central to oxidative dehydrogenation. Efforts focus on improving catalyst performance and the activation of the CH bond in propane at high temperatures, addressing the kinetic control of the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design tackles deactivation by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing activity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and improving PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging shale-gas-derived propane, address the surge in propylene demand and production constraints. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and potent, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation boosting performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, a catalyst with isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, highlighting innovative design strategies to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using supported vanadium oxides, offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, enhance catalyst stability and overcome deactivation issues. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, improving stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene highlights PDH as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial. These advancements aim to enhance selectivity, minimize coke formation, and improve stability and recyclability. Employing late transition and main-group metals, optimizing metal-support interactions, and boosting resistance against coking are key strategies to maintain activity at high temperatures, addressing the challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques, particularly V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are emerging as a viable alternative. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. highlight the superior catalytic properties of V-based catalysts, notably on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, achieving high activity and stability in PDH reactions. Sokolov et al. further reveal that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts maintain stable properties without gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, addressing deactivation issues. Rodemerck et al. suggest V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH processes, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibiting long-term stability, as propane conversion decreases minimally over cycles while propene selectivity remains high.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene highlights propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising production method. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability. Innovative strategies, including reductive gas cofeeding, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, support modification, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability and stability, crucial for meeting industrial demand. A systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts is essential for further improvements in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address rising industrial demand for propylene by directly converting propane, avoiding traditional steam cracking. Innovative design strategies employ high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, aiding in dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions. These catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly in the presence of CO2 (CO2-PDH), offers a selective process for propene synthesis, addressing this demand. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. High dispersion of redox chromium species in Beta zeolites, achieved through dealumination and impregnation, significantly boosts catalytic performance in CO2-PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion produces excellent catalysts, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene. In switch operation mode, CO2 presence accelerates the propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalysts in enhancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, crucial as industrial demand rises and traditional methods face limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. A major challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which can be caused by coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. Innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create specific reaction ensembles, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. These strategies aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. For instance, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms, while the addition of elements like Sn can inhibit carbon-carbon bond cleavage and allow coke precursors to migrate from active metals to supports, reducing coke coverage. Understanding and addressing the deactivation mechanisms is crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical solution for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation with advanced design strategies that boost stability and recyclability, aligning with industrial needs and global energy trends.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand by innovating catalyst design to overcome deactivation. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, lacking the stability of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limits but poses challenges of overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity concerns. Further research is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability, advancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. While thermal deactivation poses a challenge, innovative catalyst design strategies, such as active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, are crucial in addressing deactivation, improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative design strategies, including CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, and direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, enhance stability and activity. Studies show that VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 exhibit improved performance due to higher proportions of active V3+ species, with increased propane conversion and propene yields. The nature of the support and preparation methods significantly influence the formation of surface VOx species, affecting overall catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, overcomes these challenges. This catalyst, with active ZnOx species, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, making it a promising solution for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by testing under industrially relevant conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. They lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, challenges include decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are explored. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques are addressing the limitations of traditional production methods. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, while effective, are costly, scarce, or harmful, and prone to coking and cracking. The direct PDH reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, aim to reduce energy consumption and improve efficiency. This novel approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to prevent coking, and carbon nitride as the support, opens up high-value applications for abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, addressing the need for more sustainable and efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based ones facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation by controlling oxygen sites and modifying acid-base properties, improving selectivity and reducing byproducts. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface, is pivotal in oxidative PDH, facilitating the understanding and development of more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing activity and selectivity. The monoclinic phase of ZrO2, superior to tetragonal, releases lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation, making it a cost-efficient and eco-friendly choice for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, addresses rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are pivotal. Active site isolation enhances performance, as exemplified by CoOx@NC/S-1, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH using supported vanadium oxides emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative strategies focus on hydroxyl group control to prevent coke deposition, crucial for enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, balancing activity and stability effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst deactivation is a critical challenge, countered by innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Key approaches include employing promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides to resist coking, optimizing metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size to maintain activity over time.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported high activity and stability for these catalysts, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting their commercial PDH potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable production method, as noted in quote [2]. However, coke formation, as highlighted in quote [3], significantly impacts the performance and stability of platinum catalysts. Innovative strategies are being explored to address this challenge, including the addition of reductive gases (quote [6]), alloying with metals like tin (quote [7]), modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single atom catalysts (quote [10]). Computational simulations, as mentioned in quote [11], offer insights into deactivation mechanisms, underscoring the need for a systematic analysis of coke formation (quote [17]). These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, as a propylene production alternative, address catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites support ZnO catalysts, enhancing activity and stability. These zeolites disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, and forming active ZnO clusters, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and processes like methanol-to-propene are emerging as key solutions. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling limitations of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. However, specifics on these strategies are lacking in literature, highlighting a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms, and optimizing particle size to balance activity and stability. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also expose atoms with diverse local environments, which can lead to deactivation. Design strategies must consider the balance between enhancing propylene selectivity and preventing the formation of coke, a primary cause of catalyst deactivation. By understanding the role of particle size, electronic states, and geometric structures, researchers are developing catalysts that can maintain high activity and selectivity over extended periods, even under the harsh conditions of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's effectiveness in changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand amidst rising shale gas. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH, but alternative metal oxides like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx suffer rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations, yet introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers, such as CeO2 and SbO4, are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability. Finding a suitable catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal for effective oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, like supported vanadium oxide, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, improving PDH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints in traditional production, PDH, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative due to the favorable propane-to-propylene price differential. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    