Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3 supports, affecting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, with propene yields of 1927% over 6 h. The highest STY achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance, achieving 59.5% initial propene yield and 90% stable selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit 18.1% propane conversion and 91% propene selectivity, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, achieves a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. These strategies improve PDH catalysts for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Challenges with Cr/Pt catalysts, including toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration, led to the development of ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through the reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, show three times higher propene productivity than commercial alternatives, addressing stability and recyclability issues while being environmentally compatible.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They aim to lower energy requirements and enhance efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, improving stability, and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, aiming for lower temperature PDH to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode, has been introduced for the first time, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on improving catalyst performance through the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant can break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. Efforts also target the activation of the CH bond in propane, a rate-determining step, necessitating higher temperatures. Research is exploring single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site ratio control to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key process for on-purpose propene production, offering high selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the development of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. These catalysts, crucial for PDH performance, create active sites through the release of lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, enhancing propene selectivity and activity, especially with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites, exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups, help overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, leading to better performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides increase robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, making PDH technologies commercially viable.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium constraints and reducing carbon deposition. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, demonstrate superior catalytic properties and stability for PDH. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, for instance, exhibit high stability in PDH reactions, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures reveal remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising solution for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges, notably the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being explored to mitigate deactivation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for more efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions, making them cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design for enhanced stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Challenges remain, such as understanding the fundamental active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms, the influence of particle size on deactivation, and the need for effective regeneration methods. Strategies like the use of bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports, metals, and treatments are being explored to inhibit deactivation, with a focus on reducing coke formation and maintaining catalyst stability through regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods amid growing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specifics remain undisclosed.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering an alternative production route, especially relevant with the rise in shale gas production. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, challenges remain in deactivation and stability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but deactivate quickly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, are being investigated but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates. These issues need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer an alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighted in the quotes, are pivotal in enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation, a critical issue, is being addressed through innovative design strategies focusing on stability and recyclability, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, as highlighted in recent advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P modification to reduce VOx polymerization for stability, Mg modification for anti-coking capability, and the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing high surface area Al2O3, enhance PDH efficiency. Direct co-assembly of vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) improves V5+ interaction with silica, boosting catalytic activity. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from facile reduction of VO bonds, increasing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. Catalyst performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures, with optimal conditions enhancing propane conversion and propene selectivity. The nature of the support and preparation methods are crucial for tuning the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer an environmentally friendly solution. These catalysts, particularly ZnOsilicalite-1, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges with alkene selectivity decreasing at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and designing solid oxygen carriers with high flux, are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. However, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Additionally, the direct PDH reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to develop new PDH methods at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed, offering a new pathway for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This development addresses the need for a low-temperature PDH method that can minimize energy consumption and overcome the limitations of traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face issues of unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies, supported by computational methods, focus on single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modification, and oxygen site ratio control to balance activity and selectivity, reducing byproduct formation and improving selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, show higher activity and selectivity to propene, particularly in the monoclinic phase with smaller crystallite sizes. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is crucial for creating active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a solution to the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with high conversion and selectivity, showing no deactivation after extended reaction periods, addressing key challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are recognized as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface, it is possible to balance activity and stability, leading to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation issues by minimizing coke formation. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides enhance robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. Focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. V-based catalysts, particularly VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41, have shown superior catalytic properties, avoiding thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition. Studies demonstrate that optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit remarkable long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, while propene selectivity remains at about 91%. The VOX/MCM-41 catalyst's stability and full recovery through oxidative regeneration highlight its potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for enhanced stability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have spurred the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, which directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Active phases are small ZnO clusters directly connected to the zeolite framework, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts are low-cost, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to enhance selectivity, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. These approaches aim to reduce coke formation, prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, and improve the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as evidenced by the work of researchers like Gong and coworkers, who showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can increase propylene selectivity while reducing dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Specific strategies remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow continuous operation, alternative formulations like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, uses O2 or CO2 as oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are pivotal in improving catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area impacts catalytic performance through the influence of crystallization temperature on Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ species interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 catalyst properties and performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt face issues like toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in this process. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the new ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry are crucial for efficiency. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have spurred the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking issues. Moreover, the direct propane dehydrogenation reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to develop new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed for the first time. This opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, addressing the need for cost-effective and sustainable propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms, is central to oxidative PDH. However, the reaction's thermodynamic limitations and side reactions such as deep dehydrogenation and CC bond cleavage pose challenges. Efforts are also directed at understanding the elusive nature of reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts, considering side reactions like H migration and H2O formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity and serve as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, making them industrially relevant and cost-efficient alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized with nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high conversion and selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand and traditional production limitations. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which, despite slightly suppressing dehydrogenation activity, improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal to tackle deactivation issues, ensuring stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Strategies include employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with optimized active sites to enhance selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of enduring high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Enhancing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and incorporating alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the superior catalytic properties and stability of V-based catalysts, especially when supported on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, respectively. These catalysts show high activity, reduced carbon deposition, and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, making them promising candidates for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit remarkable long-term stability over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% and propene selectivity remaining at about 91%, highlighting their potential for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its success, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Active phases are small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them a promising solution for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is emerging as a key solution. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a crucial role. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 over Cr-containing zeolites affects propene formation rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. These advancements are crucial for propylene production in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to enhance selectivity, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. Understanding the role of active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms is essential for developing more stable and selective PDH catalysts. Particle size and electronic states significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, with smaller particles increasing the fraction of under-coordinated atoms that are prone to deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to improve catalyst performance. The primary cause of deactivation is coke formation, which can be mitigated by controlling reaction conditions, modifying support properties, and transferring coke precursors from metal sites to supports. Preventing sintering is also critical, achieved through SMSI, confinement effects, and the use of protective supports like carbon nanotubes and nanodiamonds. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by hydrogen reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous cycles may not fully restore performance. Innovative approaches, such as encapsulating metal species in zeolite crystals, offer promising solutions for stabilizing metal nanoparticles and maintaining high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, aiming to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, though specific strategies remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, current technologies require improvement in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full regeneration capability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges such as overoxidation with O2 and less heat formation with CO2. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential but need frequent regeneration and have toxicity issues, requiring further research for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking processes, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative due to the favorable price ratio between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation issues and aligning with the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet growing propylene demand, with catalyst design strategies focusing on stability and recyclability. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance is influenced by crystallization temperature, affecting acid sites and VOx species. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial in catalyst design, impacting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration, prompting the development of environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms, show three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand for propylene. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency. However, challenges arise as alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to develop new PDH methods at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve selectivity through the control of oxygen sites and metal-oxide interfaces. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts by understanding the effects of structure on C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, thus improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a viable alternative for propylene production amidst growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly boosts catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrate exceptional PDH performance with high conversion and selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising catalysts for PDH, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies focus on understanding and controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies involve promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to resist coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements improve catalyst robustness and longevity, crucial for PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. Focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies, particularly V-based catalysts, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability, making V-based catalysts a suitable candidate for commercial PDH processes. Studies show that VOX-SiO2 catalysts can maintain remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% and propene selectivity remaining at about 91%, highlighting their potential for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, a direct dehydrogenation process, is already in industrial use but faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation, alloying platinum with metals such as tin for additional benefits, and adjusting the size of the platinum catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring the method's effectiveness in meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. These catalysts, with their improved catalytic activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially in the presence of CO2 (CO2-PDH), is emerging as a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation has proven effective for CO2-PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a key role in propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Specific design details remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, which exhibit a linear relationship between activity and selectivity, indicating that selectivity decreases as activity increases. Particle size is also crucial, with smaller nanoparticles experiencing more rapid deactivation due to the preferential coverage of uncoordinated active sites by coke. To combat deactivation, efforts are directed at inhibiting coke formation through support modification, metal treatment, and reaction condition adjustments. For instance, the addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 improves stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. Alumina, a conventional support, can be modified with alkaline promoters to reduce acidity and curb coke formation. Moreover, changes in reaction conditions, such as the co-feeding of hydrogen and CO2, can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst stability. These design strategies are essential for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in PDH processes. Despite progress, detailed specifics of these strategies remain under-documented.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Further research is essential to resolve these issues and develop viable industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by their improved selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts have drawbacks, including Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine-based regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst addresses these issues, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and the limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges with alkene selectivity decreasing at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area improve efficiency. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms, and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. Innovations aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600 C. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism and thermodynamic limitations. The use of single-atom catalysts, adjusting acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen sites ratio are among the methods to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts by understanding C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional propylene production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding and controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Key strategies include employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. highlight the superior catalytic properties and stability of V-based catalysts, especially when supported on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH. These catalysts, particularly VOX/MCM-41, show full recovery with oxidative regeneration and exhibit remarkable long-term stability over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with Pt catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and controlled acidity, aid in dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. Supported on high-silica HZSM-5, ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, is pushing the chemical industry towards propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, especially CO2-assisted PDH, as traditional methods like steam cracking and catalytic cracking are insufficient. Innovative catalysts, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Redox cycles between Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination improving catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 shows enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Ongoing research targets catalyst deactivation, aiming to bolster stability and recyclability. Specific design strategies remain under development, highlighting the dynamic landscape of PDH innovation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites with controlled geometric and electronic properties, the use of bimetallic compounds to balance activity and selectivity, and the modification of supports to inhibit deactivation. Understanding the mechanisms of deactivation, such as coke formation and sintering, is crucial for the design of more stable catalysts. [1] [2] [3] [26] [33] [48] [50] [60] [63] [74] [89] [97] [106] These approaches aim to improve the efficiency and longevity of PDH processes by reducing the formation of coke and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies. These strategies aim to bolster stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, although detailed specifics remain under development. The literature confirms PDH's role in propylene production but notes the absence of concrete details on innovative catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. However, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, lacking the stability of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation, respectively. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show promise for selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Further research is needed to develop stable, efficient catalysts for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer an alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability. Well-defined supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a critical focus, enhance PDH reactions' selectivity and efficiency, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shifts in global energy dynamics, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative to conventional oil-based propylene production. Leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene, PDH techniques promise enhanced efficiency. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant hurdle. Innovative design strategies, such as active site regulation, metal-support interaction enhancement, and support modification, are being developed to tackle deactivation, thereby improving catalytic stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, like the cationanion double hydrolysis approach, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites with higher crystallization temperatures. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to strong V5+ species interaction. VOx/Si-beta zeolites show increased activity with higher acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design, focusing on support nature and metal-support interactions, is crucial for optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration, prompting the development of environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, show a threefold increase in propene productivity compared to conventional catalysts, while maintaining similar selectivity. This innovation addresses deactivation challenges and enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking. Seeking energy-efficient alternatives, researchers aim for low-temperature PDH methods. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM has been developed, addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. This innovation opens a new route for high-value propane utilization at lower temperatures, effectively reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being favored for their high activity but facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, including the use of promoters like late transition metals and main-group elements, and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable solution, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues and improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, demonstrate industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is crucial for creating active sites, crucial for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly enhances catalytic performance. This is exemplified by the synthesis of spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers supported on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1), achieving high propane conversion to propene with no apparent deactivation, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding and controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts have been shown to improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups, it is possible to balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, withstanding high temperatures, are crucial for commercial viability. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, improving metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size and shape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the superior catalytic properties of V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports, achieving high activity and stability in PDH reactions. Sokolov et al. further show that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit stable catalytic properties in the absence of gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, highlighting the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. confirm the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, reinforcing the suitability of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, as studied by various researchers, exhibit remarkable long-term stability in multiple reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at approximately 91%, showcasing the catalysts' potential for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) offer insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for more efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques have emerged, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity due to well-dispersed Zn species and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion, enhancing catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), are crucial in the oxidative pathway. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic properties, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high propene selectivity. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals that CO2 presence over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite significantly increases propene formation rate.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that increase the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, which can significantly influence the dehydrogenation process. The challenge of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation is being addressed through the design of catalysts that inhibit the formation of undesired products. Particle size is also a critical factor, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments of exposed atoms, affecting deactivation mechanisms. The electronic states of Pt ions play a significant role in the selectivity and conversion of propane, with Ptx+ ions excelling in propane conversion but not selective for propylene production. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals have shown promise in facilitating propylene desorption and increasing the barrier for deep dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. The geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states of Pt surface atoms significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The deactivation of PDH catalysts is primarily due to coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to a rapid decrease in activity on smaller nanoparticles. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and sintering of Pt nanoparticles. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance requires the inhibition of deactivation, which can be achieved through various synthetic strategies. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms is crucial for the development of more stable Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through novel design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Despite advancements, current technologies face challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke deposition, which hinders recyclability and stability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but lack the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2 as oxidants, is a promising approach. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures, but overoxidation risks reducing olefin selectivity. CO2, while milder, results in less heat formation and may lead to additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers (CeO2, SbO4, In2O3, WO3, PbOx, Tl2O3, BiO3) and noble metals (Pt, Au) offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. These issues must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a focus of recent studies, show promise in enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced deactivation poses a challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 exhibits anti-coking properties and improved catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative for propene production, addressing the limitations of oil-based cracking. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face challenges due to toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through OH group reactions at high temperatures. Defective OH groups play a critical role in the formation of active ZnOx. The new ZnO-based catalyst outperforms traditional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while doped ceria shows promise for this purpose. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being developed for efficient dehydrogenation. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can potentially cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for catalyst performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are being developed. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, leading to higher energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these issues, a novel approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) and a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. This method reduces energy consumption and opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, is supported by a carbon nitride phase, making it a promising microwave catalyst for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. To tackle these issues, researchers are innovating catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the MVK mechanism's oxygen vacancy dynamics and the need for temperature control to balance activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a key process for on-purpose propene production. To address catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, showing relevant activity and olefin selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimizing these catalysts through phase composition and crystallite size is crucial, as smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. This optimization enables the release of lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation, thus improving catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. A synthesized catalyst with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial for PDH technologies. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, enhancing robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route, particularly addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 have shown promise in PDH, with VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrating superior activity and stability when optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures. Studies reveal that these catalysts maintain high activity and stability over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. This highlights the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, aiding in the development of more stable and recyclable catalysts for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with good textural properties and well-adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework are active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is emerging as a key solution. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, tackling deactivation issues to boost stability and recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, ensuring sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, defect engineering to alter surface properties, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. Understanding the role of particle size in increasing active sites, the influence of Pt geometric sites on adsorption, and the effect of valence states on reactivity is crucial. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being developed to improve catalyst performance and longevity. [Quote 5] highlights the increase in under-coordinated atoms as particle size decreases, [Quote 10] discusses the impact of Pt valence states on propane conversion, and [Quote 30] introduces the use of a deactivation rate constant to evaluate catalyst stability. These insights and strategies are pivotal in advancing PDH processes for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues persist, necessitating innovative design strategies. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face challenges with fast deactivation and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show promise for selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Resolving these issues is crucial for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, metal-support interaction improvement, and support modification, addressing the core issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhance stability. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated Si-beta zeolites and ZrO2 supports increase surface area and thermal stability, with ZrO2 enhancing V3+ species for higher activity. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts exhibit a wide performance range, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration, prompting the development of environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through reductive treatment above 550C, exhibit three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, as demonstrated in industrial conditions testing.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand for propylene. These techniques aim to lower the energy requirement for dehydrogenation, making the process more efficient. However, challenges arise due to decreased alkene selectivity with temperature increases, leading to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome these issues, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux at dehydrogenation temperatures and membrane reactors with high surface area are explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being designed for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially enabling cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking issues. Moreover, the direct propane dehydrogenation reaction consumes high energy under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH processes that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach involves using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which opens a new route for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This development addresses the need for a new direct propane dehydrogenation method that can lower energy consumption, making it a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face issues like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To tackle these challenges, researchers are innovating catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to improve performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on single-atom catalysts, acid-base property adjustments, and oxygen site control to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods for better catalyst screening.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, offering high propene selectivity. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are cost-efficient and environmentally friendly. These catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This optimization is critical for PDH performance, addressing stability and recyclability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene by converting abundant shale-gas propane into propene. Cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging earth's rich cobalt reserves, are promising for PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, with their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, are explored as promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robustness against high temperatures for commercial viability. Additional promoters and optimized metal-support interactions further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, focusing on innovative catalyst design strategies to address deactivation issues. V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, with VOX/MCM-41 demonstrating stability and full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures reveal remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. These findings support the suitability of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly coke formation, which hinders platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate deactivation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, addressing challenges by utilizing innovative catalyst design strategies to combat deactivation and enhance stability. Notably, high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites serve as supports for ZnO catalysts, improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, facilitate the dispersion of Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework are identified as active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them a promising solution for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. As traditional sources like steam cracking and catalytic cracking prove insufficient, selective processes including PDH gain prominence. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create specific reaction ensembles, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and promote redispersion. Understanding and addressing the mechanisms of catalyst deactivation, such as coke formation and sintering, is essential for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, challenges remain, including catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition and the need for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2 as oxidants, is being explored to overcome thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures, but overoxidation must be avoided. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Alternative solutions, like solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, are being investigated, but issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by their improved selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation challenge and aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques are addressing industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles, exhibit high activity due to the direct co-assembly process. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to the production of active V3+ species. The nature of the support is crucial in catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration, prompting the development of environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, show three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have evolved. Challenges with traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, or detrimental, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, have led to the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. A new direct propane dehydrogenation method at low temperature is desired to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have developed a novel approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, which opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This innovative design utilizes cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase as the catalyst support.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at high temperatures. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. To address these issues, researchers are innovating catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. Innovative design also includes the use of single-atom catalysts, tuning oxygen activity, and computational methods to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the catalyst's potential in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly boosts catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites, exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are recognized as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, are being explored to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts have been shown to suppress coke deposition, improving catalyst stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the utilization of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, increase resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2 and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to exhibit stable PDH properties and full recovery with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 in PDH, attributing it to the stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 1, 2). However, the severe impact of coke formation on the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH remains a significant challenge (Quote 3). To address this, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), modifying supports to control coke (Quote 8), adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity (Quote 9), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms (Quote 10). These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial demand and overcoming traditional production limitations (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. A key challenge is catalyst deactivation, which innovative design strategies aim to address by enhancing stability and recyclability. Notably, high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites serve as supports for ZnO catalysts, improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Active phases are small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a critical solution. Traditional production methods are insufficient, prompting the exploration of selective processes like PDH, which are gaining significance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion has proven effective in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. The acidity of zeolites, such as SiBeta and AlBeta, influences catalytic properties, with low acidity favoring high selectivity to propene and high acidity promoting propane cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. These methods convert propane to propylene, addressing the need for increased production. However, catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge, leading to decreased efficiency and selectivity. Innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create specific reaction ensembles, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and promote redispersion of metal nanoparticles. These approaches aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering, thereby enhancing the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. [Quote 50] highlights the effectiveness of separating active metal components to inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions and improve propylene selectivity. [Quote 51] and [Quote 52] demonstrate the promotional effect of Cu on the catalytic performance of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, showing that the interaction between Pt and Cu elevates the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitates propylene desorption. [Quote 53] reports an optimized loading content of Cu that increases propylene yield and selectivity while reducing coke formation. [Quote 54] explains that site-isolated Pt inhibits deep dehydrogenation side reactions by limiting the contact of precursors to a single bond instead of more stable interactions. [Quote 55] shows that Pt/Cu single-atom alloys break the scaling relationship of Pt alloys and improve propylene selectivity up to 90%. [Quote 56] suggests a similar inference for PdIn/SiO2 intermetallic alloys in ethane dehydrogenation. [Quote 57] and [Quote 58] discuss the importance of electron density in weakening metal-carbon bonds, inhibiting coke precursors, and promoting propylene desorption. [Quote 59] explains that alloying with diverse promoters modulates the surface electronic structure and reactivity. [Quote 60] and [Quote 61] demonstrate the impact of Zn amalgamation on the transformation of rate promotion and enhanced propylene selectivity. [Quote 62] shows that the addition of reducible metal oxides improves catalytic stability and propylene selectivity. [Quote 63] discusses the benefits of alumina as a support for platinum-based catalysts. [Quote 64] and [Quote 65] explain the use of alkaline promoters and doping to curb support acidity. [Quote 66] reports the highest propylene selectivity achieved with a specific Zn/(Zn+Mg) ratio. [Quote 67] and [Quote 68] discuss the introduction of metal oxides into alumina supports to enhance interaction and improve catalyst performance. [Quote 69] explains how support modification decreases acidity and modulates dispersion and electronic properties of Pt. [Quote 70] discusses the positive effect of changes in reaction conditions on coke elimination. [Quote 71] and [Quote 72] show that increasing hydrogen pressure reduces coke precursor coverage and increases propylene selectivity. [Quote 73] suggests explanations for the beneficial effects of increased H2 coverage. [Quote 74] discusses the use of CO2 cofeeding to reduce coke formation via the reverse Boudouard reaction. [Quote 75] and [Quote 76] show that modifying CeO2 with Ga3+ enhances oxygen mobility and storage capacity, improving propylene desorption and inhibiting coke formation. [Quote 77] and [Quote 78] discuss the strategy of transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports to prolong catalyst life. [Quote 79] reports a significant decrease in coke amount. [Quote 80] and [Quote 81] explain the drain off effect of Sn addition, allowing coke precursors to migrate from active metals to supports. [Quote 82] notes the lack of direct demonstration of the coke transfer pathway. [Quote 83] and [Quote 84] discuss the influence of Pt cluster size on dehydrogenation pathway and the issue of sintering at high PDH temperatures. [Quote 85] to [Quote 88] explain the causes of metal particle sintering. [Quote 89] to [Quote 93] discuss strategies to inhibit sintering and re-disperse aggregated nanoparticles. [Quote 94] to [Quote 98] explain the benefits of confinement situations offered by supports. [Quote 99] reports better stability of a coated Pt@SnO2/Al2O3 catalyst. [Quote 100] to [Quote 102] discuss the protective effect of nanocarbons and mesoporous materials as supports. [Quote 103] to [Quote 107] explain the use of zeolite crystals to stabilize metal nanoparticles. [Quote 108] to [Quote 110] report the high thermal stability of Pt nanoparticles and single atoms formed within MCM-22. [Quote 111] discusses the effectiveness of regeneration under oxidizing conditions. [Quote 112] notes the limitations of continuous regeneration. [Quote 113] and [Quote 114] explain the role of Sn in redispersion of Pt. [Quote 115] discusses the issue of metal leaching and segregation reconstruction. [Quote 116] emphasizes the need for further understanding of deactivation mechanisms and effective strategies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery through regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but poses overoxidation risks. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a critical focus, enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Significant advancements in design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques are addressing industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification enhances stability by reducing VOx polymerization, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, offering an environmentally compatible solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements, but faces challenges like decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored, potentially involving electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This development addresses the need for a low-temperature PDH method that can reduce energy consumption, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase as the catalyst support.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face issues of unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant to the reaction feed can break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. Research is also exploring the nature of reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts, considering side reactions such as deep dehydrogenation and H2O formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a key process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, with the ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment being crucial for creating active sites. This enhances stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, making ZrO2-based catalysts environmentally friendly and cost-efficient alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized via a two-step process, exhibits high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative design strategies for stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, are employed to increase resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, utilizing V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhance stability in propylene production. Studies by Bai et al. on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts and Sokolov et al. on VOX/MCM-41, VOX/SiO2-Al2O3, and VOX/Al2O3 catalysts demonstrate superior catalytic properties and stability in PDH reactions. The VOX/MCM-41 catalyst, in particular, shows full recovery with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. also highlight the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, further supporting V-based catalysts as a suitable choice for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing slowly from 55% to 45% over 4 hours, while propene selectivity remains at approximately 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising route for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying platinum with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, and modifying catalyst supports. Computational simulations have also provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and reaction network of PDH. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting the demands of the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being developed, including the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, enhance catalytic activity and stability by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are proving insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion has shown to produce excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites is ideal for high propene selectivity, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for meeting industrial demand and adapting to changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting demand and navigating global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thus enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial, as is the role of particle size in increasing the number of active sites and the diversity of exposed atoms. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to design more stable PDH catalysts. The primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation, which can be mitigated by controlling the electronic and geometric structures of the catalyst surface. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding hydrogen and carbon dioxide, can positively affect coke elimination. Preventing sintering and promoting redispersion of metal nanoparticles during regeneration cycles are also critical for maintaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Specific strategies remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, hindering their activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. Solid oxygen carriers (CeO2, SbO4, etc.) and noble metals (Pt, Au) for selective hydrogen combustion are explored, but frequent catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity issues need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are tackling deactivation, improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including CADH for synthesizing high-surface-area Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst stability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 supports improve catalytic activity, with VOx/ZrO2 being five times more active than VOx/Al2O3. The nature of the support and preparation methods are crucial for the formation of active V species, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Cr and Pt catalysts have limitations due to toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method uses commercial ZnO to create environmentally friendly supported catalysts. ZnOx species form in situ through reductive treatment above 550C, with defective OH groups playing a key role. The ZnO-based catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, showing three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand for propylene. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency. However, challenges arise due to the temperature-dependent equilibrium conversion of alkanes and the tendency for dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation, which decrease alkene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome these issues, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, and the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux at dehydrogenation temperatures is crucial. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored, with doped ceria showing promise for selective hydrogen combustion. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer the potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. However, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. The direct PDH reaction also consumes high energy under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to enable PDH at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been developed for the first time. This non-precious catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride as support, opens a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods have spurred the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to address the limitations of Pt-based catalysts and improve the overall efficiency of PDH for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This optimization is critical for overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance, ensuring high propane conversion to propene with minimal deactivation, as demonstrated by cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising catalysts for PDH, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups, can overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability in nonoxidative PDH processes. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies involve the use of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with optimized active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Additional promoters, including late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, focusing on catalyst design to enhance stability and recyclability. Innovative V-based catalysts, supported on materials like mesoporous silica solids, Al2O3, and MCM-41, demonstrate superior catalytic properties for PDH, overcoming deactivation issues. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit high activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH, with studies showing remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles. These advancements position V-based catalysts as promising candidates for commercial PDH processes, addressing the challenges of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals like tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes convert propane directly to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Active phases are small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), due to limitations in steam cracking and catalytic cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a crucial role. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching operation modes between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive impact of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the overall efficiency of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial, as is the role of particle size in exposing diverse local environments that can lead to deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to design more stable catalysts. The use of H2 and CO2 in reaction conditions can also positively impact coke elimination. SMSI can prevent sintering and help re-disperse aggregated nanoparticles during dehydrogenation and regeneration processes. Confinement effects provided by supports can prevent metal cluster sintering. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Specific details of these strategies remain unexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues persist, necessitating innovative design strategies for stability and recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, requiring further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces new challenges. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures, but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the core issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as P and Mg modification, enhance stability and anti-coking capability. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 supports increase surface area and thermal stability, with VOx/ZrO2 showing higher activity due to V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face challenges due to toxicity or ecologically harmful regeneration processes. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment above 550C, addresses these issues. This catalyst, with a role for defective OH groups in forming active ZnOx species, shows three times higher propene productivity than conventional catalysts under industrial conditions, offering an environmentally compatible solution to enhance propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges with alkene selectivity decreasing at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to overcome these issues. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of VOx phase in catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been introduced for the first time, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These approaches address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism and the control of reaction temperatures to balance activity and selectivity. Advanced catalyst design, including single-atom catalysts and the tuning of oxygen activity, is supported by computational methods to optimize C-H bond activation and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for creating active sites through the release of lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment. This enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes, making them more environmentally friendly and cost-efficient.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, offer a viable alternative for propylene production amid growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with innovative design strategies like active site isolation enhancing performance. A notable catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high conversion and selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. This approach enhances catalyst performance and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Techniques include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable PDH performance in the absence of O2, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH's industrial implementation faces challenges, notably coke formation on Pt catalysts, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address deactivation issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn for additional benefits, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods fall short. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key alternative, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to meet industrial needs. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior CO2-assisted PDH catalysts. Redox Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, although specific details remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. As highlighted, the fraction of active sites on catalysts can significantly influence deactivation, with smaller particles increasing the number of active sites but also diversifying the local environments of exposed atoms, leading to structure-sensitive side reactions and undesired products. Understanding and manipulating these factors is crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are evolving to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, though detailed strategies remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. The surge in shale gas production has made natural gas a more economical feedstock, enhancing PDH's relevance. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow for competitive, continuous PDH processes, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is promising due to its lack of thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2, while milder, results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a hurdle, yet significant strides have been made in catalyst design to enhance stability and recyclability, focusing on active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    