Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address challenges in propylene production by enhancing stability and recyclability. Mesoporous Al2O3 supports with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, synthesized through the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), influence VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) results in high concentrations of isolated V3+ species, crucial for catalytic activity. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, with propene yields of 1927% over 6 h DDH reaction. The highest STY achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance, achieving 59.5% initial propene yield and 90% stable selectivity over 6 h at 580 C, with a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit 18.1% propane conversion and 91% propene selectivity, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, one of the highest VOx containing catalysts. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, achieves a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, one of the most active VOx-based catalysts. Preparation methods and support materials significantly influence catalyst performance, with moderate vanadium doping levels promoting highly dispersed vanadium species and isolated VOx active sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, offers an environmentally friendly solution. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making it a promising advancement in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. VOx phase nature is critical for high alkene selectivity, while NiOx-based catalysts show potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, aiming to overcome decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking. Energy consumption is also high under conventional reaction modes. Innovative strategies aim to develop new PDH methods at lower temperatures to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts due to poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability from coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements aim to optimize catalyst performance, balancing activity and selectivity while reducing byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key solution, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This optimization is pivotal for improving PDH performance in response to industrial needs and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are developed for PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative catalyst design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure and the presence of hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, which can suppress coke deposition and enhance stability, leading to improved recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are pivotal, focusing on stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies involve the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to enhance robustness against coking. Additionally, optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability, crucial for the commercial success of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies by Bai et al. on V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 have shown high catalytic activity and superior stability. Sokolov et al. found that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit stable catalytic properties for PDH, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. reported that VOX species in VOX/MCM-41 catalysts contribute to superior catalytic properties for PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion showing a gradual decrease from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remains at about 91%. These findings suggest that V-based catalysts are promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, Pt catalysts used in PDH face challenges, notably coke formation, which hinders performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke buildup (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as Sn for enhanced benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the escalating demand for propylene while overcoming the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods, which are insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to address the growing demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, improving catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. This approach addresses catalyst deactivation challenges, making PDH a viable alternative in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, although specific details remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production is addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability by understanding the role of active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and the impact of particle size on deactivation. The development of PDH techniques is crucial in meeting increasing industrial demand for propylene, while innovative catalyst design, such as alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, is being explored to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. These approaches are essential for enhancing the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in shale gas production. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by their improved selectivity and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques are addressing industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification aids in anti-coking capabilities. Synthesis methods, such as CADH for Al2O3 and co-assembly for V/SiO2, optimize metal-support interactions. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit high activity due to the facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. These strategies significantly impact PDH processes, with the most active catalysts achieving STYs that are less active than Pt catalysts but still represent significant advancements.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine regeneration in traditional catalysts. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment above 550C, offers an environmentally compatible solution. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. These techniques can lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, making the process more efficient. However, challenges arise with temperature increases, leading to decreased alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome these issues, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, and the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux at dehydrogenation temperatures is crucial. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored for improved efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer the potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts persists, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. The design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking. Seeking to reduce energy consumption, researchers aim for low-temperature PDH methods. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving lattice oxygen, is crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation, but requires careful temperature control to avoid over-oxidation. Computational methods, such as DFT calculations, are employed to understand catalyst performance and improve selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal in propylene production, offering high propene selectivity and addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for creating active sites through the release of lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment. This advancement in catalyst design significantly improves stability and recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with industrial demands for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative design strategies to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, including late transition metals, main-group metals like Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. V-based catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Bai et al. demonstrated high activity and stability with mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported V-based catalysts, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to exhibit stable PDH performance and full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 in PDH, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, showed remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, Pt catalysts used in PDH face challenges due to coke formation, which significantly hampers catalytic performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke buildup (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as Sn for added benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability and stability in PDH processes, effectively meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework act as active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to address the limitations of steam and catalytic cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion improves catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promoting high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation challenges, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to improve selectivity, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. These approaches collectively aim to reduce coke formation, prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, and improve the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as evidenced by studies showing improved selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These strategies aim to boost stability and recyclability, although the text does not delve into specific details, reflecting the ongoing research and development in this area.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, current dehydrogenation technologies, including PtSn and CrOx catalysts, face challenges like fast deactivation due to coke deposition, as alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have not proven viable. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored with O2 and CO2 as oxidants, each with unique benefits and drawbacks. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability. Further research is essential to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, in particular, have shown promise in improving selectivity and efficiency, making them a critical focus for enhancing PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue and aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, like CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, increase V5+ interaction with silica, enhancing activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of oil-based processes. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers environmental compatibility and superior performance, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements, but faces challenges like decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, including the use of supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. However, conventional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures. This development aims to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals like Ga and Sn, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with the catalyst's surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant can break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to prevent over-oxidation. Understanding the reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts remains a challenge, with side reactions needing consideration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity and are crucial for on-purpose production. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the catalyst's adaptability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging the abundance of propane from shale-gas, address the growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrate exceptional PDH activity, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Techniques include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining long-term activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, which increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the superior catalytic properties and stability of V-based catalysts, especially when supported on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH. These catalysts show remarkable long-term stability over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains high at approximately 91%. The VOX/MCM-41 catalyst, in particular, exhibits full recovery with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species, making V-based catalysts a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the severe impact of coke formation on the catalytic performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH poses a significant challenge (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) (Quote 7), and modifying catalyst supports. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. There is a recognized need for a systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH (Quote 17), highlighting the ongoing efforts to improve catalyst performance and meet the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. Active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to meet this demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their high thermal and acid stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, improving catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive effect of CO2 on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that balance selectivity and stability, understanding deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and employing design approaches like alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions. For instance, smaller particle sizes can increase the number of active sites but also lead to diverse local environments that affect reactivity. The challenge is to optimize the fraction of certain active sites to prevent side reactions that cause deactivation. Understanding the role of Pt geometric sites and electronic states is key to controlling propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to improve catalyst performance. For example, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can enhance stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as the addition of H2 or CO2, can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst life. The confinement of metal clusters within supports can also prevent sintering and maintain catalyst activity at high temperatures. These design strategies aim to create more stable and efficient PDH catalysts that can meet the demands of the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Ongoing research develops innovative catalyst design strategies to tackle deactivation, boosting stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, though detailed specifics remain underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the core issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including CADH for synthesizing high-surface-area Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhance stability and activity. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high dispersion and stability of VOx species. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 show improved performance due to the influence of acid sites and the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial, affecting metal-support interactions and VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts by about 34 times.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have drawbacks, including Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine-based regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst addresses these issues, forming ZnOx species through OH group reactions at high temperatures. This catalyst, when tested under industrial conditions, demonstrated three times higher propene productivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, with similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. These techniques lower energy requirements but face challenges due to increased temperature leading to decreased alkene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. The design of NiOx-based ODH catalysts is also explored, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing the need for cost-effective and sustainable propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being widely used despite challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers. These strategies aim to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Research is also exploring the use of single-atom catalysts, modifying acid-base properties, controlling oxygen site ratios, and utilizing metal-oxide interfaces to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation. Computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling are aiding in understanding catalyst performance and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal in propylene production, offering high propene selectivity. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient. These catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This optimization is crucial for PDH performance, as it relates to the creation of coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations responsible for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH techniques, notably cobalt-based catalysts, offer a viable alternative to traditional methods. Innovative active site isolation strategies enhance catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding and controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface, it's possible to balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. This approach improves catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Key strategies include the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to resist coking. Designing catalysts with optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements is essential for maintaining activity at high temperatures over extended periods, ensuring PDH's commercial feasibility.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to overcome catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. V-based catalysts, notably VOX-SiO2, have shown superior catalytic properties and stability, making them a promising solution for PDH. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the high catalytic activity and stability of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids, with VOX/MCM-41 exhibiting full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% and propene selectivity remaining at approximately 91%. These findings suggest V-based catalysts could be suitable for commercial PDH processes, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for additional benefits, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes convert propane directly to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Active phases are small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts are low-cost, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to address the limitations of steam cracking and catalytic cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal in enhancing PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with their high thermal and acid stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites boosts propene formation, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, which show superior activity and selectivity but require a fundamental understanding of active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms. Particle size is crucial, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments. Electronic states of the catalyst significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Design strategies aim to inhibit deactivation through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments, focusing on the prevention of coke formation, which is the primary cause of catalyst deactivation. By understanding and manipulating the geometric and electronic structures of catalysts, researchers can design more stable and selective PDH catalysts, optimizing performance and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are evolving to combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. However, detailed strategies remain underdeveloped in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in shale gas production. PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow for competitive, continuous PDH processes, but challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show promise for selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity issues. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design innovations target deactivation and stability issues. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance is influenced by crystallization temperature, affecting acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to increased V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt have issues with toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, addresses these challenges. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, offering a more environmentally compatible solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making processes more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx phase nature is critical for performance, and NiOx-based catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored, aiming for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts has been developed, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as support, opens avenues for high-value C3H8 resource utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve selectivity through the control of oxygen sites and metal-oxide interfaces. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts by elucidating structure-reactivity relationships and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for propane activation. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size improves PDH performance by facilitating the release of lattice oxygen, creating active Zrcus sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propene demand and shale-gas reserves, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly boosts catalytic performance. Specifically, spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) exhibit exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, leading to better catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to minimize coke formation and deactivation, crucial for commercial PDH viability. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are developed using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements further improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids, among others, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability in PDH. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable properties for PDH without gas-phase O2 and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, indicating V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showed remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing slowly from 55% to 45% over 4 hours, while propene selectivity remained at approximately 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. The high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite's structure and acidity help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, while small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework act as active phases. These ZnO catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, necessitates alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, complemented by selective processes like olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP). Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high chromium dispersion, are ideal for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieving high propene selectivity. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, and switch operation mode between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, boosting stability, and enhancing recyclability in PDH processes, though detailed methodologies remain underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. These methods convert propane to propylene, addressing the need for increased propylene supply. However, catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge, leading to the development of innovative design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on overcoming deactivation issues. Key approaches include the optimization of active site structures, understanding dehydrogenation mechanisms, and the design of catalysts that prevent deactivation through improved stability and recyclability. The evolution of PDH techniques and catalyst design strategies is crucial for meeting the demands of the changing global energy landscape and ensuring the efficiency and sustainability of propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing key challenges in the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal in meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods with limitations. Despite advancements, current technologies require improvements in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of well-defined supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design strategies, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), exhibit high activity and stability due to the direct co-assembly process. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalyst properties. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and VOx/ZrO2 show promise as supports due to their high surface area, thermal stability, and ability to produce active V3+ species. Catalyst design must consider support nature, as it affects metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues due to toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst addresses these, forming ZnOx species through reductive treatment. This catalyst, tested under industrial conditions, exhibits three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, making it a promising solution for enhanced PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand for propylene. These techniques can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation (Quote 1). Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode (Quote 10), solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux at dehydrogenation temperatures, and membrane reactors with high surface area (Quote 13). Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 11), and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry (Quote 12). Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy from alkane dehydrogenation (Quote 14). Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts (Quote 22), and the critical nature of the VOx phase for VOx-based catalyst performance (Quote 46). Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms (Quote 48). Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts (Quote 51).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are being developed. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to achieve direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst in the microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed for the first time, opening a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This development aims to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These approaches aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with the catalyst's surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant can break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. Understanding the reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts remains a focus, with side reactions like deep dehydrogenation and H2O formation also considered.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene by converting abundant propane from shale-gas deposits. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH. An innovative design strategy isolates active sites, enhancing performance. A synthesized catalyst (CoOx@NC/S-1) achieved 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are recognized as promising PDH catalysts, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, which, despite slightly suppressing dehydrogenation activity, significantly enhance stability by preventing coke deposition, thus improving catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, with additional promoters like late transition metals and optimal metal-support interactions, are crucial for commercial viability, maintaining activity at high temperatures over long periods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium constraints and reducing carbon deposition. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, making them a promising choice for PDH processes. Studies show that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit high stability and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the pressing need for propylene in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene and overcoming the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, making them low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, expected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, particularly as steam cracking and catalytic cracking become insufficient. Selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with SiBeta's low acidity favoring high propene selectivity and AlBeta's high acidity promoting propane cracking. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts with optimized active sites and dehydrogenation pathways. Particle size and coordination numbers significantly influence the fraction of active sites, impacting the selectivity and stability of the catalysts. Deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, are major concerns, but can be mitigated through the design of specific reaction ensembles and the modification of supports and metals. For instance, the use of single-atom alloys and intermetallic compounds can improve propylene selectivity by inhibiting deep dehydrogenation side reactions. Additionally, the incorporation of reducible metal oxides and the adjustment of reaction conditions, such as H2 and CO2 cofeeding, can reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst stability. The strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) and confinement effects provided by supports like CeO2 and mesoporous materials also play a critical role in preventing sintering and maintaining the dispersion of active metals. These design strategies are essential for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are evolving to combat deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes, addressing key challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative techniques.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, deactivation issues persist, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a hurdle, but advancements in catalyst design, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being made to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhance stability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 and direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts improve interaction and dispersion of V species. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst performance is influenced by support materials, preparation methods, and the proportion of active V species, with the most active V-based catalysts achieving significant STYs, albeit less than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration, prompting the development of environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through the reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, show three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements, but faces challenges with temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, achieving sufficient propene yield remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, researchers are developing new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin acts as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst. This innovation opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these issues, researchers are exploring innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies also involve the use of single-atom catalysts (SACs) with precise local structures, adjusting acid-base properties through alkali metal additives, and controlling the ratio of oxygen sites on the catalyst surface to balance activity and selectivity. Computational methods, including density functional theory (DFT) and microkinetic modeling, are employed to understand the effects of catalyst structure on C-H bond activation and to screen potential catalyst candidates, supporting the development of more efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a viable alternative for propylene production amidst growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as evidenced by CoOx@NC/S-1 synthesis, significantly boosts catalytic performance and stability, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation over 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising catalysts for PDH, boasting high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which enhance catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation. By optimizing the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface, it's possible to achieve a balance between activity and stability, improving recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies incorporate promoters such as late transition metals, main-group metals like Sn and Ga, and metal oxides to increase robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability, crucial for the commercial success of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, with mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts achieving high activity and stability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion rates showing a gradual decrease from 55% to 45% over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, while propene selectivity remains at approximately 91%. These findings highlight the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes, offering a promising solution to the challenges of catalyst deactivation and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the challenge of coke formation during PDH significantly hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts (Quote 3). Innovative design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring the technique's effectiveness in meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods have spurred the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative strategies use high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhancing activity and stability. These catalysts, with small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, and the limitations of traditional production methods are driving the evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are crucial in the oxidative pathway, and the number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity of SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity of AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Ongoing research develops innovative catalyst design strategies to tackle deactivation, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, catering to both oxidative and nonoxidative methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions and improve propylene selectivity. For instance, the interaction between Pt and Cu has been shown to elevate the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitate propylene desorption. The addition of reducible metal oxides, such as TiO2, improves catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying the acidity of supports, like alumina, with alkaline promoters can curb support acidity and reduce coke formation. Changes in reaction conditions, such as co-feeding hydrogen and CO2, can also positively impact coke elimination. The confinement of metal nanoparticles within zeolite frameworks provides thermal stability and prevents sintering. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by hydrogen reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts. These strategies collectively aim to improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes by overcoming catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Specific details of these strategies remain unprovided in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes to be competitive, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery through regeneration. Innovative design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation, which avoids thermodynamic limitations, is explored using O2 and CO2 as oxidants. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures, but overoxidation must be avoided. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, thereby optimizing propylene production efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation poses a significant challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification decreases coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. Synthesis methods, like CADH for Al2O3 and co-assembly for V/SiO2, increase surface area and active species, leading to higher activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile reduction of VO bonds, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. The nature of the support and preparation methods significantly influence the proportion and stability of active V species, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have limitations due to toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst, as demonstrated by ZnOsilicalite-1, achieves three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements but faces challenges with temperature and selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry are crucial for efficiency. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed, potentially offering electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. These strategies address the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion and the critical nature of the VOx phase in VOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of traditional propane dehydrogenation (PDH) methods, which include costly, scarce, or detrimental Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts prone to coking and cracking, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM), innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed. A novel approach utilizes non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) for direct propane dehydrogenation at low temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. This method, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin acts as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, effectively tackles the challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being widely used despite issues with selectivity, deactivation, and stability at high temperatures. To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism and the need to balance activity and selectivity to avoid thermodynamic limitations and side reactions. Computational methods, such as DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling, are employed to understand the effects of catalyst structure on C-H bond activation and to screen potential catalyst candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, are crucial for on-purpose propene production amidst growing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, thus improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand by converting abundant shale-gas propane into propene. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their performance and earth's cobalt abundance, are key in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, which can suppress coke deposition and enhance stability, leading to improved recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. on VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate superior catalytic properties and stability in PDH reactions, with the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes, capable of maintaining high propene selectivity and long-term stability across multiple reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate deactivation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the limitations of traditional propylene production methods by directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. Supported ZnO catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox chromium species playing a pivotal role in propene yield. The acidity of the zeolite substrate, like SiBeta for high selectivity to propene and AlBeta for promoting propane cracking, significantly influences catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, boosting stability, and facilitating recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby optimizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address the issue of catalyst deactivation, which is a significant challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and recyclability of PDH catalysts by improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Key approaches include the use of alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create specific reaction ensembles, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to stabilize nanoparticles. These advancements are crucial for improving the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are sought to address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain underdeveloped in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, current technologies require improvement in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts, like metal oxides, face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation, respectively. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity hinder industrial viability. Innovative design strategies are essential for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighted in literature, show promise in enhancing selectivity and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing stability and recyclability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production challenges, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price advantage of propane. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing key deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, like P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg addition for anti-coking properties, enhance stability. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, produces more V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, influencing metal-support interactions and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. However, Cr- and Pt-based catalysts used in commercial PDH technologies have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method now prepares environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, show about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, addressing the need for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand for propylene. PDH can lower the energy requirement for dehydrogenation, making the process more efficient. However, challenges remain, such as decreased alkene selectivity with higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These include the use of supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion, the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, and the creation of membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts persists, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. The design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these issues, there's a need for a new PDH method at lower temperatures to save energy. Researchers have developed a novel approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, which acts as a microwave catalyst for the first time, offering a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovative catalyst design strategy, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce coking, and carbon nitride as support, addresses deactivation challenges, enhances stability, and improves recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600 C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To tackle these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, is central to oxidative dehydrogenation. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, releasing heat. However, to achieve higher selectivity, the reaction must be conducted at lower temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of single-atom catalysts (SACs) and the modification of acid-base properties through alkali metal additives, are being explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation. Computational methods support these developments by aiding in the understanding of C-H bond activation and screening potential catalyst candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity and serve as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2, thus improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing industrial demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) were synthesized, demonstrating exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration. Innovative design strategies focus on surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major deactivation cause. Tuning hydroxyl group coverage balances activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen in an endothermic reaction. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures and maintain activity over extended periods. Additional promoters and optimal metal-support interactions are employed to increase resistance against coking and improve catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable PDH performance and full recovery with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, highlighting its potential for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for more efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to meet this demand. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, addressing key challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and employing supports that promote stability and inhibit deactivation. For instance, the use of smaller metal particles increases the number of active sites but also diversifies the local environments, affecting reactivity. The challenge lies in balancing the increase in active sites with the prevention of deactivation. Strategies such as alloying, single-atom catalysis, and the use of strong metal-support interactions are being explored to enhance selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent metal agglomeration, thereby improving the efficiency and recyclability of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods with limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, allowing for continuous operation, challenges remain in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being studied for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by their improved selectivity and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are addressing industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability. Mg modification decreases coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. Synthesis methods, like CADH for Al2O3, and co-assembly for V/SiO2, increase surface area and active species, leading to higher activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile reduction of VO bonds, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution, crucial for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method now prepares environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, which form ZnOx species through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in this process. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the new ZnO-based catalyst triples propene productivity while maintaining similar selectivity, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements, making the process more sustainable. However, they face challenges such as decreased alkene selectivity with temperature increases due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, including the use of supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and the creation of membrane reactors with high oxygen flux and surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on the membrane type and geometry. The design of proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes is also being explored, offering the potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the critical nature of the VOx phase for VOx-based catalysts. The investigation of NiOx-based ODH catalysts with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms is also underway. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with high energy consumption. Innovative strategies aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM has been introduced, offering a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing key challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges such as poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers. These strategies aim to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Advanced catalysts, like single-atom catalysts (SACs) and those with controlled oxygen sites, are being explored to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve overall efficiency. Computational methods, such as DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling, are aiding in understanding catalyst performance and guiding the development of more efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a key method, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the catalyst's adaptability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are key. The active site isolation strategy enhances PDH catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrate exceptional PDH performance: 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface, it is possible to balance activity and stability, leading to enhanced recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, address deactivation issues by minimizing coke formation. Promoters like late transition metals and optimal metal-support interactions improve stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial viability. Robust catalysts withstand high temperatures, maintaining activity over time.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on supports like mesoporous silica solids, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 showed high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, showcasing high VOX species stability. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 in PDH. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for additional benefits, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, enhancing stability and addressing the challenges posed by increasing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques emerge as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, prompting a focus on propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. As an alternative, PDH and processes like propane oxidative dehydrogenation in the presence of O2 or CO2 gain significance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are pivotal in the oxidative pathway, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites facilitates high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing the challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts with optimized particle sizes to increase the number of active sites while managing the diverse local environments of exposed atoms. The challenge of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation is being addressed through the design of catalysts with selective active sites that favor propylene production over deep dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Recent studies highlight the role of single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals, which facilitate propylene desorption and inhibit deep dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance involves the inhibition of deactivation through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 improves catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as the cofeeding of H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst stability. The confinement of Pt clusters within supports like zeolites or the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) can prevent sintering and maintain the stability of PDH catalysts at high temperatures. These design strategies are essential for the evolution of PDH as a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research for stability enhancement. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation, respectively. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus enhancing propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, targeting active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to boost stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. The crystallization temperature of Al2O3 supports affects the distribution of surface V species, impacting catalytic performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, with high proportions of active V3+ species. Support nature is crucial in catalyst design, influencing metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face issues due to toxicity or ecologically harmful regeneration processes. An innovative method introduces environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the VOx phase's nature is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these issues, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed. This innovation reduces energy consumption by operating at lower temperatures and opens a new route for efficient propane utilization. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to minimize coking, offers enhanced stability and recyclability, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant can break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to maximize selectivity. Single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site ratio control are among the techniques being developed to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity and serve as a major on-purpose production method. Innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, showing industrial relevance in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Catalyst performance is enhanced by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, with smaller sizes and the monoclinic phase exhibiting higher activity and selectivity to propene. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zr cations, crucial for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial. Active site isolation enhances performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, shows exceptional PDH performance with high conversion and selectivity, resisting deactivation for 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising catalysts for PDH, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups, it's possible to balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies show that V-based catalysts, known for their reasonable cost and environmental friendliness, exhibit superior catalytic properties when supported on these materials. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts demonstrated stability in PDH without gas-phase O2 and could be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, attributing this to the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. also highlighted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 in PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts have shown remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing slowly from 55% to 45% over 4 hours, while propene selectivity remained at about 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a leading alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the severe impact of coke formation on the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH remains a significant challenge (Quote 3). To address this, innovative design strategies are being developed, including the cofeeding of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, with their improved catalytic activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to meet this demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), enhance propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 shows a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation issues, a critical challenge, through the development of innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. However, the literature lacks detailed specifics on these strategies, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create specific reaction ensembles, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and promote redispersion of metal nanoparticles. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is crucial for developing effective strategies to maintain catalyst performance and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes. However, literature lacks specifics on these strategies, indicating a research gap.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, alternative formulations like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced deactivation poses a significant challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase has shown that crystallization temperature influences catalytic performance by affecting the distribution of surface V species. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly in V/SiO2 catalyst preparation increases interaction between V5+ species and silica support, leading to high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 catalyst performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' influence on surface VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance range of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active exhibiting STYs less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of oil-based processes. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, environmentally compatible, are developed to overcome deactivation issues. Supported ZnOx species form through reductive treatment, with defective OH groups playing a key role. The new catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing its potential for enhanced stability and recyclability in industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. These techniques lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation but face challenges with alkene selectivity due to increased temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry are crucial for efficiency. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for PDH processes at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This development addresses the need for a new PDH method that can operate at lower temperatures and reduce energy consumption, while the CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter, enhances stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being widely used despite issues with propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies, including the addition of late transition metals and main-group metals as promoters and modifying carriers. These strategies aim to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, which governs oxidative dehydrogenation, highlights the importance of oxygen vacancies and their role in the catalytic cycle, guiding the development of catalysts that can balance activity and selectivity. Advanced catalyst design, such as single-atom catalysts and the control of oxygen sites, is being explored to reduce byproducts and improve selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, particularly those employing ZrO2-based catalysts, are gaining prominence. These catalysts, noted for their industrial relevance and cost-efficiency, exhibit high propene selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Their performance can be optimized by adjusting phase composition and crystallite size, with smaller crystallites and the monoclinic phase showing superior activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is crucial for creating active sites, enhancing the catalyst's performance in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are key in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances performance, as seen in spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1), synthesized through a two-step process. This catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising catalysts for PDH, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups, can help overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, focusing on stability and recyclability. These include using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals (Sn, Ga), alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to enhance robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and incorporating alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability, ensuring commercial viability of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Bai et al. demonstrated high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to exhibit stable PDH properties under oxidative regeneration, attributing this to the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. also reported superior catalytic properties for PDH with VOX/MCM-41, indicating the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, synthesized at specific gelation and calcination temperatures, showed remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% and propene selectivity remaining at approximately 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces the challenge of coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying catalyst supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene and addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-assisted PDH, emerges as a viable solution. Innovative catalysts, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high dispersion of chromium species, crucial for PDH efficiency. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-PDH, demonstrating the impact of acidity on selectivity and propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a propylene production method addresses the limitations of traditional techniques, particularly through innovative catalyst design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge, is tackled by understanding the active sites and dehydrogenation pathways on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Particle size impacts the fraction of active sites, with smaller particles increasing the number of under-coordinated atoms, which can lead to side reactions and deactivation. Electronic states of Pt ions influence propylene production selectivity, with Ptx+ ions excelling in propane conversion but not selective for propylene. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals show higher propylene selectivity by facilitating propylene desorption and increasing the barrier for deep dehydrogenation. Design strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, which exhibit a linear relationship between selectivity and activity, indicating that selectivity decreases with increased activity. Catalyst deactivation is primarily due to coke formation, which covers active sites and blocks reactant access. Strategies to inhibit deactivation involve modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and sintering of Pt nanoparticles. For instance, the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts improves propylene selectivity and reduces coke by elevating the energy barrier for CC bond breaking and facilitating C3H6 desorption. Alloying with promoters like Zn modulates surface electronic structure, enhancing C3H6 selectivity. Reducible metal oxides like TiO2 improve stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying Al2O3 supports with metal oxides reduces acidity and modulates Pt dispersion and electronic properties. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also reduce coke formation. Strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) and confinement effects provided by supports like CeO2 and mesoporous materials prevent sintering and enhance stability. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is effective for removing coke and reactivating catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, to meet evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, current technologies face deactivation issues, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Innovative catalyst design is crucial for stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures (Quote 8), but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity (Quote 9). CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation (Quote 11). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates (Quote 19). Further research is needed to resolve these issues and develop viable industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, thereby addressing key challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    