Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Mesoporous Al2O3 supports synthesized through the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) improve VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance, with crystallization temperature affecting the distribution of surface V species. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of isolated V3+ species, crucial for catalytic activity. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, with propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction. The highest space time yield (STY) achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. Surface acidity modifications, active V3+ species, and weakened metalsupport interactions facilitate desorption of propene and inhibit deep dehydrogenation. Excessive Mg addition sharply decreases acidity, leading to loss of DDH activity. The V/SiO2 catalyst displays optimal catalytic performance, achieving a superior initial propene yield of 59.5% and stable propene selectivity of 90% over 6 h at 580 C, with a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high initial propane conversion and propene selectivity, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, displays a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The role of other V species on the DDH reaction remains unclear, and further work could yield more active and stable DDH catalysts. The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 times less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face limitations due to toxicity or ecologically harmful regeneration processes. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, addresses these issues. This catalyst, featuring active ZnOx species, demonstrates about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, offering an environmentally compatible solution to enhance PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, doped ceria for enhanced selectivity, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and improve stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to enhance the performance of VOx-based catalysts and NiOx-based ODH catalysts, exploring electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of traditional PDH methods, which include costly, scarce, or detrimental Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts prone to coking and cracking, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM), innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed. A new PDH method at lower temperatures is desired to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have developed a novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This approach addresses the challenges of traditional PDH methods by enhancing stability and recyclability, and reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, showing relevant activity and selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size enhances activity and selectivity to propene, with monoclinic ZrO2 outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. Smaller crystallite sizes and the ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment create active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, thus overcoming deactivation issues and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are developed for PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy, as per Quote 3, enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers supported on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) exhibit exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups, help overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, leading to better catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH converts propane to propylene, addressing challenges through innovative catalyst design strategies that focus on deactivation issues, stability, and recyclability. Key strategies include the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to enhance robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackle catalyst deactivation issues by employing innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids, like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, avoiding thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in PDH reactions, with high propane conversion and propene selectivity. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts are promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting the demands of the chemical industry and overcoming traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct conversion of propane to propylene, addressing industrial demand and traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved catalytic activity and reduced side reactions, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to address the growing demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, offer ideal conditions for chromium dispersion, improving catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion has proven effective, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, with catalyst design innovations targeting deactivation issues to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, addressing key challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to increase selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. As noted, 'Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective.' Innovative design strategies are crucial for addressing these uncertainties and enhancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in shale gas production. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH to competitive levels, challenges remain in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but poses overoxidation risks. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated, but issues like catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as employing well-defined supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area has shown that crystallization temperature impacts the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by affecting the distribution of surface V species. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Innovative techniques, like the direct co-assembly process for vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), enhance the interaction between V5+ species and silica support, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. The influence of gelation and calcination temperatures on VOx/SiO2 catalysts has been explored, showing improved performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers the nature of the support, as metal-support interactions and acid sites influence the formation of surface VOx species. The most active V species can be tuned by varying preparation methods. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face limitations due to toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst has been developed, addressing environmental concerns. Supported ZnOx species, formed through reductive treatment, enhance propene productivity by three times compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, while maintaining similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), can lower energy requirements but faces challenges in balancing alkane conversion with alkene selectivity due to increased dehydrocyclization and coke formation at higher temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux at dehydrogenation temperatures. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored. However, achieving sufficient propene yield remains a challenge, with VOx catalysts showing decreased selectivity at higher conversions. The nature of the VOx phase is critical, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 could lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, innovative strategies are being developed. Aiming for energy-efficient methods, researchers are exploring direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, used for the first time under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, overcoming issues of deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. This endothermic reaction, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, operates at around 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving catalyst performance. The MVK mechanism, which governs oxidative dehydrogenation, requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity, as products are prone to further oxidation. Understanding and addressing these challenges is crucial for the advancement of PDH as a sustainable propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues. These catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, exhibit industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Monoclinic ZrO2, with smaller crystallite sizes, shows superior performance in propene production compared to tetragonal ZrO2, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, thus enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure catalyst robustness against high temperatures for long-term activity. The use of promoters, such as late transition and main-group metals, and optimal metal-support interactions further contribute to the stability and recyclability of PDH catalysts, crucial for commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the superior catalytic properties and stability of V-based catalysts, especially when supported on γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH. These catalysts show high activity, reduced carbon deposition, and full recovery potential through oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining propane conversion and propene selectivity, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges, notably the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for more efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being developed, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Notably, high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites serve as supports for ZnO catalysts, improving catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, characterized by their low cost, toxicity-free nature, and reusability, are promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), are emerging as crucial alternatives. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, crucial amid growing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being tackled through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, where the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms are clarified. Particle size is crucial, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, impacting selectivity and stability. Geometric and electronic structures play a critical role in adsorption configurations and the potential for side reactions, which can lead to catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies aim to optimize these structures to improve propylene selectivity and reduce coke formation, a primary cause of deactivation. The use of bimetallic compounds, modification of supports, and treatments are explored to inhibit deactivation, with a focus on the balance between activity and selectivity. Insights into deactivation mechanisms are crucial for the design of more stable PDH catalysts, and strategies such as the use of specific reaction ensembles, tuning support acidity, and controlling reaction conditions are being developed to enhance catalyst performance and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Alternative catalysts, like metal oxides, face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Key strategies include utilizing well-defined supported vanadium oxide catalysts, enhancing selectivity and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, as highlighted in critical literature reviews.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation of PDH catalysts remains a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation and metal-support interaction enhancement, are being developed to improve catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing the core issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and VOx/ZrO2 show promise due to high surface area and thermal stability, with ZrO2 enhancing V3+ species. Catalyst support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers environmental compatibility. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. They lower energy requirements but face challenges with temperature and selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx and NiOx catalysts are critical, with ongoing research on electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, innovative methods are being developed for low-temperature propane dehydrogenation to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offers a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To tackle these issues, researchers are innovating catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, or lattice oxygen mechanism, is central to oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with the catalyst's surface oxygen, creating oxygen vacancies. This necessitates lower temperatures for higher selectivity, as products are prone to further oxidation. Innovative strategies also involve single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site ratio control to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key process, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The catalyst's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zr cation sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating environmentally friendly and cost-efficient solutions for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are key. Active site isolation enhances performance, as demonstrated by a synthesized catalyst achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thus enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the utilization of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. The incorporation of additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increases robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability, crucial for the commercial success of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In the context of growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, particularly oxidative and non-oxidative processes, tackle catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies. V-based catalysts, notably VOX-SiO2, VOX/Al2O3, and VOX/MCM-41, demonstrate superior catalytic properties and stability. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed excellent stability in PDH, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimizing gelation and calcination temperatures for VOX-SiO2 catalysts led to remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% and propene selectivity remaining at about 91%. These advancements in catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces the challenge of catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for enhanced stability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by converting propane directly, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts improve activity, reduce side reactions, and are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), due to the limitations of steam cracking and catalytic cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, ensuring the technique's effectiveness in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts with optimized particle sizes to increase the number of active sites while maintaining stability. The use of single-atom catalysts and alloying with promoters like Cu and Zn has shown promise in improving selectivity towards propylene and inhibiting side reactions that lead to coke formation. Additionally, modifying supports with metal oxides and adjusting reaction conditions by cofeeding H2 and CO2 can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst stability. Strategies to prevent sintering, such as strong metal-support interactions and confinement effects in mesoporous materials, are also being explored to maintain catalyst activity over multiple cycles. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, though specific strategies remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Alternative catalysts, like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx), face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, lacking the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke deposition but introducing overoxidation risks, and CO2 consuming H2 but resulting in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers (CeO2, SbO4, In2O3, WO3, PbOx, Tl2O3, BiO3) and noble metals (Pt, Au) offer alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative. Despite commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high dispersion and stability of VOx species. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile reduction of VO bonds, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species. These strategies, focusing on support nature and metal-support interactions, tune the proportion and stability of active V species, significantly impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer environmental compatibility. Defective OH groups play a key role in forming active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates triple the propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high surface area and oxygen flux. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed, considering electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, addresses the need for sustainable propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, operates at around 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face issues like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving oxygen vacancies and their subsequent oxidation, is central to oxidative PDH. Efforts to improve catalysts focus on single-atom catalysts, acid-base property adjustments, and oxygen site ratio control to balance activity and selectivity. Computational methods support these developments by elucidating structure-reactivity relationships and screening catalyst candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal in meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, crucial for creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This design strategy ensures the catalyst's ability to release lattice oxygen, creating Zrcus sites for propane activation, thus improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas deposits, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A catalyst with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) exhibits exceptional PDH performance: 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are recognized as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups, are being explored to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts have been shown to suppress coke deposition, improving stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process converting propane to propylene and hydrogen, faces challenges of catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, are developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures and maintain activity. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides, are employed to increase resistance against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, particularly those utilizing V-based catalysts, address catalyst deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts show remarkable stability in PDH reactions, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts in commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to mitigate deactivation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their improved activity and reduced side reactions, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable solution, with selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites favoring high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, as highlighted in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a key alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that can be calculated from geometric models, understanding the influence of Pt geometric sites on adsorption configurations, and the role of valence states of Pt in reactivity. Challenges include the structure sensitivity of side reactions leading to undesired products and catalyst deactivation. Solutions involve the use of single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals, which show more facile propylene desorption and higher propylene selectivity. The design of catalytic systems with promoted performance requires the inhibition of deactivation, which can be achieved through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, the addition of an appropriate amount of reducible metal oxides such as TiO2 improves catalytic stability and C3H6 selectivity. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also positively affect coke elimination. The confinement situation offered by a support can provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals and exert a spatial constraint on metal clusters, avoiding sintering. These strategies aim to improve the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, enhancing the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Specific details of these strategies remain unprovided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in shale gas production. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Finding a suitable catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, targeting stability and recyclability, have been pivotal, focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues. CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability. Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative method uses commercial ZnO to create environmentally friendly supported catalysts. ZnOx species form in situ through reductive treatment, with defective OH groups playing a key role. The ZnO-based catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques, particularly oxidative dehydrogenation, have the potential to lower energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and the creation of membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, with the potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the critical nature of the VOx phase for VOx-based catalysts. The design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is also being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, the direct PDH reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To address these challenges, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for direct PDH at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. This innovative approach utilizes cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride as the catalyst support, effectively addressing the need for stable and recyclable catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600 C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, characteristic of oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, which are then refilled by O2 or CO2. To address thermodynamic limitations and improve selectivity, researchers are developing single-atom catalysts, tuning acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen site ratios on catalyst surfaces. Computational methods like DFT and microkinetic modeling aid in understanding catalyst performance and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is crucial for creating active sites, improving catalyst performance in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are central to PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the presence of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition and enhance stability, thereby improving recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Key challenges, notably catalyst deactivation, are being tackled through innovative design strategies. These include employing promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to enhance robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and using alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes are being refined to tackle catalyst deactivation, improve stability, and enhance recyclability. Innovative catalyst design, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, demonstrates superior catalytic properties for PDH. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit high catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in PDH reactions, with propane conversion rates showing minimal decline over eight reaction-regeneration cycles and maintaining high propene selectivity. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising solution for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges and aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. While PDH is already utilized in industry, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, remains a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the increasing demand for propylene and the need for more efficient production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by directly converting propane, avoiding steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with good textural properties and well-adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, with processes like oxidative dehydrogenation gaining significance. Innovative catalysts, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with their high thermal stability and large surface area, enable optimal dispersion of chromium species, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals the positive effect of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the growing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, though specific strategies remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), which aim to boost selectivity and stability, minimize coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. As highlighted by Xiong et al., singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, demonstrating the potential of these design strategies to optimize PDH catalysts. Gong and coworkers have shown that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can increase propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are sought to combat deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, alternative metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored using O2 and CO2 as oxidants, each with distinct challenges. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals present alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby enhancing selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing key challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability, while Mg modification decreases coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area affects catalytic performance through the distribution of surface V species. Innovative co-assembly techniques for V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), enhance V5+ species interaction with the silica support, leading to high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibit high propene yields due to the production of active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. The nature of the support and preparation methods significantly influence the proportion and stability of active V species, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have limitations due to toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative method uses commercial ZnO to create environmentally friendly supported catalysts. Active ZnOx species form through reductive treatment, with defective OH groups playing a key role. The ZnO-based catalyst outperforms commercial alternatives, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are designed for efficient dehydrogenation. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry determine reactor efficiency. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, necessitating the critical nature of the VOx phase for performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have evolved. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed for the first time, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This design includes cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase as the catalyst support.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, which exhibit poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with the catalyst's surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant to the reaction feed helps break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. The development of these catalysts is supported by computational methods to understand the effects of geometrical and electronic structures on C-H bond activation and to screen potential catalyst candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for PDH performance. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as exemplified by a synthesized catalyst (CoOx@NC/S-1) with exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in catalyst deactivation, leading to better performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites promote selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation. Strategies include using promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to increase robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial PDH processes. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports, respectively, exhibit high activity and stability, with the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts are suitable for commercial PDH processes, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showing remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining approximately 91% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH is a proven method for large-scale propylene production, but catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, remains a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying catalyst supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet the growing demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods by directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, improve catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework are proposed as active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative to traditional production methods, which are becoming insufficient. Selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation has been shown to produce effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites have a significant impact on propene yield, and the acidity of the zeolite affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, bolstering stability, and enhancing recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby optimizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing production challenges. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites, understanding deactivation mechanisms, and the impact of particle size on catalytic performance. For instance, smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also expose atoms to diverse local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. Deactivation often results from side reactions leading to the formation of undesired products and coke, which can be mitigated through the design of specific reaction ensembles and the tuning of support properties. The construction of geometric and electronic structures that govern the adsorption configuration and strength of propylene is essential for inhibiting coke formation. Additionally, modifying supports, metals, and treatments can help inhibit deactivation, with a focus on separating active metal components to improve propylene selectivity and reduce coke formation. Understanding the process of coke deposition is crucial for enhancing catalyst performance and regeneration. Strategies for inhibiting coke include the use of specific promoters, adjusting reaction conditions, and transferring coke precursors from active metals to supports. Moreover, preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles and maintaining the dispersion of active metals are key to catalyst stability. Strong metal-support interactions and confinement effects provided by supports can prevent aggregation and sintering, ensuring the longevity of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation, a critical hurdle, through evolving design strategies aimed at boosting stability and recyclability. Despite PDH's promise, literature lacks specifics on these strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, deactivation issues persist, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity (Quote 8). CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic (Quote 11). Further research is essential to address these issues and find suitable catalyst-oxidant combinations (Quote 4). Alternative solutions, including solid oxygen carriers and noble metals for selective hydrogen combustion, are being explored but require catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates (Quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus enhancing propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including CADH for Al2O3 synthesis, P and Mg modification for VOx/Al2O3, and co-assembly for V/SiO2, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to V3+ species production. Catalyst support nature is crucial, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts show STYs significantly lower than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Existing Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, shows three times higher propene productivity without sacrificing selectivity, offering an environmentally compatible solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency. These methods lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges like dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to their cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking issues. Moreover, the direct propane dehydrogenation reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To address these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed, which opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing issues like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering. To tackle these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on single-atom catalysts, alkali metal additives, and oxygen activity tuning to reduce byproducts and improve selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a key process for on-purpose propene production. To address catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming the tetragonal phase.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing industrial demand for propylene. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative design to overcome deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve additional promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, enhancing robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids, such as SiO2, ZrO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, have shown superior catalytic properties and stability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion rates showing a gradual decrease from 55% to 45% over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, while propene selectivity remains at approximately 91%. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation issues and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces the challenge of coke formation, which significantly impacts the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, eliminating the need for steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, allow for the production of active ZnO clusters directly connected to the zeolite framework, improving catalytic activity and stability. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) gain prominence due to limitations in steam cracking and catalytic cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure, large pore size, and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation enhances catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are crucial in the oxidative pathway. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high propene selectivity and high acidity in AlBeta favoring propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial, as is the role of particle size in increasing the number of active sites and the diversity of exposed atoms, which can lead to catalyst deactivation through side reactions. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to design more stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, aiming to combat deactivation, boost stability, and recycle in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, deactivation issues persist, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 and CO2 are leading oxidants, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperatures but introducing overoxidation risks, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity concerns, necessitating further research for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the critical issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ species interaction. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts by about 34 times.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of oil-based processes. Current PDH technologies face challenges due to toxic or ecologically harmful catalyst regeneration methods. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, prepared through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms, offers an environmentally compatible solution. The role of defective OH groups in forming active ZnOx species has been identified. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrated about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially reduce energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation could cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking. Seeking energy-efficient alternatives, researchers are developing low-temperature PDH methods. A novel approach uses CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability. This innovation opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, effectively reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to address these issues. These strategies aim to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Understanding the MVK mechanism, which governs the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, is crucial for developing catalysts that can balance activity and selectivity while minimizing side reactions. The development of these catalysts is supported by computational methods, aiding in the design of more efficient and stable catalysts for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, show industrial relevance in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Catalyst activity and selectivity are enhanced by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, crucial for creating active sites through lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior performance for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) were synthesized, achieving exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding and controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, leading to better catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH converts propane to propylene, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These include employing promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Additionally, optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium constraints and reducing carbon deposition. Innovative catalyst design, particularly V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial PDH application. V-based catalysts, notably on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports, exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts are promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, a critical process in the chemical industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, enhances stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues. These catalysts, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods fall short, prompting the exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. PDH, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), gains significance in meeting the increasing demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), play a crucial role in the oxidative pathway, impacting propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high propene selectivity and high acidity in AlBeta favoring propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, tackling deactivation issues to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, as highlighted in the quote: 'PDH techniques address these challenges by providing an alternative route for propylene production.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single-atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to boost selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. Challenges remain, such as understanding active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms, the impact of particle size on deactivation, and the balance between activity and selectivity. Strategies like the use of bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports, metals, and treatments are being explored to inhibit deactivation. The design of catalytic systems with enhanced performance is crucial, with a focus on inhibiting deactivation mechanisms and optimizing reaction conditions to reduce coke formation. Understanding the process of coke deposition and implementing effective strategies to inhibit coke are critical for improving catalyst performance and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, directly responding to the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes for continuous operation, but challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but deactivate quickly due to coke deposition, with limited regeneration effectiveness (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 and CO2 are key oxidants: O2 prevents coke deposition, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks must be managed (Quote 8, 9). CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition (Quote 10, 11, 12). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but they require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates (Quote 16, 19). Resolving these issues is crucial for industrial viability (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a critical focus, improve selectivity and efficiency in PDH reactions, making them promising for industrial demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to boost stability and recyclability, addressing key deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg modification for anti-coking capability, enhance stability and performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile reduction of VO bonds, are more active than VOx/Al2O3. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts, using Cr or Pt, face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing its potential in overcoming deactivation challenges and enhancing stability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges like decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalyst performance, and designing efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms is being explored. Acid site titration increases propene selectivity but may reduce propane conversion. Understanding these mechanisms and integrating insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 can lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, or detrimental, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, innovative design strategies are being developed. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. A novel approach uses CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) for direct propane dehydrogenation at low temperatures, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources while reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts suffering from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, with a focus on the MVK mechanism in oxidative dehydrogenation, which requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. Advanced catalysts, such as single-atom catalysts and those with controlled oxygen site ratios, are being explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for PDH performance. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, making them industrially relevant for C3 and C4 alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are key in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits high propane conversion to propene with >97% selectivity and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts, boasting high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups have been shown to suppress coke deposition, improving catalyst stability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure catalyst robustness against high temperatures and long-term activity. The inclusion of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides further boosts resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements are key to achieving stable and recyclable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackles catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies, notably V-based catalysts. VOX-SiO2, VOX/MCM-41, and VOX/Al2O3 catalysts demonstrate superior catalytic properties, stability, and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies reveal that optimized gelation and calcination temperatures for VOX-SiO2 catalysts significantly enhance long-term stability and catalytic activity, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirmed the high activity and stability of V-based catalysts, while Rodemerck et al. highlighted the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, underscoring the potential for full recovery with oxidative regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the formation of coke during PDH significantly hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts (Quote 3). To tackle this issue, innovative strategies are being developed, such as the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6) and alloying Pt with metals like tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7). There is a recognized need for a systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH (Quote 17), highlighting the importance of understanding and mitigating this challenge to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. Small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework act as active phases, enhancing the catalyst's performance. These catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production in response to increasing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is emerging as a key solution. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields effective CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Specific details of these strategies are not provided, but their development is crucial for improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to increase selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance overall efficiency and recyclability. For instance, smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, impacting deactivation. The design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation is essential for improved performance, and strategies such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments have been shown to be effective. Understanding the process of coke deposition is key to improving catalyst performance and optimizing regeneration. The use of specific promoters and supports, as well as changes in reaction conditions, can positively affect coke elimination and prolong catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to combat deactivation, boost stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes, although specific details remain elusive in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods by offering an alternative production route, particularly relevant in the context of increased shale gas production. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes to competitive levels, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but lack the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems due to rapid deactivation and irrecoverable activity. Oxidative dehydrogenation, which avoids thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative, with O2 and CO2 as leading oxidizing agents. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures but poses overoxidation risks. CO2, while milder, results in less heat formation and may lead to additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermal deactivation of catalysts persists as a major hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for Al2O3 synthesis affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance through crystallization temperature, influencing Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Innovative V/SiO2 catalyst preparation, like direct co-assembly for V-DMSNs, enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 catalytic performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, increasing active V3+ species. Metal-support interactions and acid sites influence surface VOx species, affecting catalyst design. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, offers environmental compatibility and higher propene productivity, as demonstrated in industrial conditions, making it a promising solution to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. These techniques lower energy requirements but face challenges with temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity, leading to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored. NiOx-based catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, while VOx-based catalysts require careful phase design for high alkene selectivity. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced for the first time, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This development addresses the need for a direct propane dehydrogenation method that can reduce energy consumption and overcome catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600 C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to improve catalyst performance, ensuring the process meets the demands of a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a major on-purpose propene production process. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for creating active sites through the release of lattice oxygen upon reductive catalyst treatment. This enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes, making them more environmentally friendly and cost-efficient.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. A synthesized catalyst with isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite exhibits high propane conversion to propene with >97% selectivity and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing exceptional PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, with their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, are being explored as catalysts for PDH. Innovative design strategies are focusing on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. By controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage, these strategies aim to balance activity and stability, improving overall catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, like late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and incorporating alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids, are being explored to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, making them promising for industrial PDH applications. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable PDH performance in the absence of gas-phase O2, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. also noted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, attributing it to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest that V-based catalysts are suitable for commercial PDH processes, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showing remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining approximately 91% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising route for large-scale propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. However, coke formation on Pt catalysts undermines performance and stability. Strategies to reduce coke include cofeeding hydrogen with propane, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, modifying supports, adjusting Pt size, and exploring single atom catalysts. DFT simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, aiding in catalyst design for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. The zeolite's structure and acidity help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, with small ZnO clusters connected to the framework acting as active phases. These catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, with processes like oxidative dehydrogenation gaining significance. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites improve propene yield, with dealumination impacting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, though specific details of these strategies are not provided.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), which aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the overall efficiency of PDH processes. As highlighted by researchers, the coordination structure and electronic states of active sites significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, while the size of metal particles affects the fraction of active sites and the rate of deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are crucial for the design of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, deactivation issues persist, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery post-regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is explored to overcome thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but poses overoxidation risks. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer an alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements have been made in PDH catalyst design, targeting stability and recyclability improvements through active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ species interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these issues. This catalyst, as demonstrated in testing, offers three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry are crucial for efficiency. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have evolved. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or detrimental, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. The direct propane dehydrogenation reaction consumes more energy under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed. This approach operates at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, offers a promising solution for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, which are then refilled by O2 or CO2, forming a catalytic cycle. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, releasing heat. However, this requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. PDH is a kinetically controlled reaction, with CH bond activation as a rate-determining step, necessitating high temperatures. Research is ongoing to refine catalysts, focusing on single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site ratio control to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, are crucial for on-purpose propene production amid growing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, thus enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are developed for PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding and controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thus enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Strategies include employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Enhancing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and incorporating alloying elements are key to improving catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids, like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, avoiding thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate high catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH processes. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to exhibit stable PDH properties and full recovery with oxidative regeneration, attributing this to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a promising alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected to the HZSM-5 framework are active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. Supported ZnO catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to address the limitations of steam cracking and catalytic cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties, where low acidity of SiBeta supports high propene selectivity and high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite, unlike over AlBeta.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. These advancements are crucial for sustaining PDH's effectiveness in propylene production, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that increase the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, which can significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Understanding the role of Pt geometric sites and the adsorption configurations of propane and propene is essential for improving selectivity and stability. The challenge of deactivation, often due to coke formation, can be mitigated through the design of catalysts with inhibited deactivation, achieved by modifying supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as the cofeeding of H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst stability. The size of Pt clusters also plays a significant role in dehydrogenation pathways, and preventing sintering at high PDH reaction temperatures is critical. Strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the confinement effect provided by supports can prevent the aggregation of Pt nanoparticles, maintaining their stability and catalytic performance. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous regeneration may not fully restore catalytic performance over multiple cycles. Innovative approaches to catalyst design, such as the use of single-atom alloys and the modification of support acidity, are being developed to enhance the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, though specific details remain unexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow continuous operation, alternative metal oxides deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, requiring further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, uses O2 or CO2 as oxidants, each with unique challenges like overoxidation and endothermic reactions. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are pivotal in addressing deactivation, improving stability, and enhancing recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 exhibits anti-coking capability and improved performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts have limitations, prompting the development of an environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalyst. Supported ZnOx species form through a reaction with OH groups above 550C, with defective OH groups playing a key role. The new ZnO-based catalyst outperforms a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing the limitations of traditional propylene production and the challenges of Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, researchers are developing innovative methods. A new low-temperature PDH process is sought to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been introduced for the first time. This non-precious catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce coking, and carbon nitride as support, opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing the increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Research explores single-atom catalysts with defined structures, tuning acid-base properties with alkali metals, and controlling oxygen site ratios to balance activity and selectivity. Metal-oxide interfaces and oxygen activity tuning are also investigated to reduce byproducts and improve selectivity. Computational methods support catalyst development by understanding C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates. These advancements address the challenges of oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. Catalyst design strategies, such as using ZrO2-based catalysts, overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size of ZrO2 creates active sites for propane activation, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase showing higher activity and selectivity to propene. This environmentally friendly and cost-efficient approach is crucial for on-purpose propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a viable alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are central to PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups to enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key deactivation issue, thus enhancing performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Techniques such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Strategies to overcome deactivation include the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, which increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further enhance catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. PDH processes, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackle catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids, to enhance stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. V-based catalysts, particularly on supports like SiO2, ZrO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, exhibit attractive catalytic properties for PDH, with high activity and stability, as evidenced by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al.'s research. The VOX/MCM-41 catalyst, for instance, shows stable catalytic properties in PDH without gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, highlighting its potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions, making them low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. PDH, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), gains significance due to limitations in steam cracking and catalytic cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites boosting propene yield. Dealumination impacts catalytic properties, with SiBeta's low acidity favoring high propene selectivity and AlBeta's high acidity promoting propane cracking. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, offering enhanced propylene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, improving stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thus enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Challenges remain, such as understanding the fundamental active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms, the impact of particle size on the fraction of active sites, and the role of valence states of Pt in reactivity. Strategies to overcome these include the use of single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals, which show higher propylene selectivity, and the modification of supports and metals to inhibit deactivation. Understanding the process of coke deposition is crucial for improving catalyst performance and optimizing regeneration. The use of H2 and CO2 in cofeeding streams can also positively affect coke elimination. Efforts to inhibit sintering and re-disperse aggregated nanoparticles during dehydrogenation and regeneration processes are ongoing, with strong metal-support interaction and confinement situations offered by supports being key areas of focus.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation by innovating design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative, with O2 and CO2 as oxidizing agents. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer an alternative, focusing on catalyst design to tackle deactivation, enhance stability, and boost recyclability. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts are pivotal, showing promise in improving PDH reaction efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key challenges in the technique.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    