Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address challenges in propylene production by enhancing stability and recyclability. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts synthesized via the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) show improved performance with optimized crystallization temperatures. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coking and enhances catalytic performance. VOx/SiO2 catalysts with moderate vanadium doping exhibit high propene yields and stable selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) display superior performance in both ODH-O2 and DDH reactions. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. The most active catalysts achieve STYs of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, while others exhibit STYs ranging from 3.4 to 64 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, depending on the support, loading, and preparation method. These strategies aim to optimize the relative proportion and stability of active V species, leading to more efficient and stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these challenges. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. This catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, offering an environmentally compatible solution to PDH challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements, but faces challenges with temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, achieving high propene yields remains a challenge, particularly over VOx catalysts, where propene selectivity decreases with increasing alkane conversion. The nature of the VOx phase is critical, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, while effective, are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking over time, leading to higher energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for PDH processes at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, which not only reduces energy consumption but also opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This development is significant as it addresses the issues of cost, scarcity, and long-term stability of traditional PDH catalysts, while also reducing the environmental impact through lower energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600 C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants interact with catalyst surface oxygen, forming vacancies that can be refilled by O2 or CO2. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with H2, releasing heat. However, to achieve higher selectivity, the reaction must be conducted at lower temperatures. Understanding the complex reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts remains a challenge, with side reactions complicating the process.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are developed for PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1), synthesized through a two-step process, exhibit exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are highlighted as promising PDH catalysts, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage, are being explored to suppress coke deposition, a major cause of catalyst deactivation. This approach enhances stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing demand and traditional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Strategies include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and maintain activity at high temperatures. Robust catalysts, featuring late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, are designed to resist coking. Optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements further boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. Both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes are being developed to address catalyst deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids, are being explored. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in PDH reactions. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. found that V-based catalysts supported on γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, respectively, exhibit high catalytic activity and stability, with the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. reported a correlation between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts reveal remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over 4 hours, while propene selectivity remains at 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising route for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, enhance recyclability and are cost-effective, toxicity-free, and promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, with selective processes like olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene gaining traction. Innovative catalyst design, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion, improving CO2-assisted PDH efficiency. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are sought to tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specifics remain under development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, which show superior activity and selectivity but face challenges with active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms. Smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, impacting selectivity and stability. Design strategies aim to optimize the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, which increase as particle size decreases, to improve propylene production while minimizing side reactions like deep dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis that lead to catalyst deactivation. Understanding the role of Pt geometric sites and electronic states is crucial for controlling propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Strategies also focus on inhibiting deactivation through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation, which is the primary cause of catalyst deactivation. This includes the use of bimetallic compounds, the application of a descriptor to represent selectivity, and the exploration of synthetic strategies to enhance stability. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance requires an understanding of deactivation mechanisms and the development of strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as the use of specific reaction ensembles and the tuning of support properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, as highlighted in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, lacking the performance of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of well-defined supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, thereby optimizing propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking processes, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative due to the favorable price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhance stability. CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH catalysts, using Cr or Pt, face issues with toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment above 550C, facilitated by defective OH groups. This new catalyst, ZnOsilicalite-1, outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency. However, higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for lower-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts has been introduced, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst. This development opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face issues of poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies tackle deactivation challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aiming to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative PDH, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form vacancies, which are then refilled by O2 or CO2, creating a catalytic cycle. Understanding and controlling this mechanism is essential for overcoming thermodynamic limitations and achieving higher selectivity at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, thus improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as per Quote [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising catalysts for PDH, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts have been shown to suppress coke deposition, improving stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation issues by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and long-term activity loss, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, enhance resistance against coking. Optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, addressing the need for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. V-based catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate remarkable long-term stability and recyclability in PDH processes, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported on the high catalytic activity and stability of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, respectively, highlighting their potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers platinum (Pt) catalyst performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate deactivation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene and addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to address the limitations of conventional techniques. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high dispersion of chromium species, improving catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. The number of redox Cr sites significantly influences propene yield, with dealumination impacting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 demonstrates the positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design to boost stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation challenges, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, aim to increase selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation and sintering, is a significant hurdle, but recent advancements in catalyst design are addressing these issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods and rising industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods with limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues persist, mainly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research for viable alternatives. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising, with O2 and CO2 as leading oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, though milder, results in less heat formation and may increase coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal. Alternative solutions, like solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, show potential but require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative. Despite challenges with thermally induced catalyst deactivation, advancements in design strategies, such as active site regulation and support modification, significantly enhance stability and recyclability, addressing key industry needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including the cationanion double hydrolysis approach for Al2O3 synthesis, P and Mg modification of VOx/Al2O3, and co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. Preparation methods and support materials significantly influence the performance of V-based catalysts, with the most active exhibiting STYs 34 times less than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and environmental issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts are developed, addressing these challenges. Supported ZnOx species, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, show three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, marking a significant advancement in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but faces challenges with temperature and selectivity, leading to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. However, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while highly active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To tackle these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve overall catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional propylene production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrate high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, can overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in catalyst deactivation, leading to better performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through advanced design strategies. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Strategies include using late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides as promoters to increase robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial viability in the face of growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on materials like mesoporous silica solids, γ-Al2O3, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. highlight the superior catalytic properties and stability of V-based catalysts in PDH, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. also confirm the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, supporting the suitability of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% and propene selectivity remaining at about 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 1, 2). However, the challenge of catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, hinders performance and stability (Quote 3, 4). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, such as cofeeding hydrogen with propane (Quote 6), alloying platinum with metals like tin (Quote 7), modifying supports (Quote 8), adjusting catalyst size (Quote 9), and exploring single atom catalysts (Quote 10). These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the critical need for efficient propylene production methods (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being developed, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Notably, high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites are used as supports for ZnO catalysts, improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The active phases are small ZnO clusters directly connected to the zeolite framework, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are proving insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to meet the increasing demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a crucial role in propene yield. Dealumination impacts catalytic properties significantly, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Specific strategies are under development but not detailed here.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address the issue of catalyst deactivation, which is a significant challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and recyclability of PDH catalysts, particularly in the context of oxidative and nonoxidative processes. The focus is on improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Techniques such as alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) are being explored to improve catalyst performance. These approaches not only increase the efficiency of PDH processes but also contribute to the overall sustainability of propylene production in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods amid growing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, uses O2 or CO2 as oxidants, each with distinct benefits: O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature, but risks overoxidation; CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by their improved selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the core challenge of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods. Catalyst stability and recyclability are enhanced through modifications like P and Mg, which reduce VOx polymerization and coke formation. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows enhanced performance from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution, crucial for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, shows promise. Defective OH groups play a key role in active ZnOx species formation. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, offering a sustainable solution to PDH challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion, creating solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, and developing membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and improve stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, with potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the critical nature of the VOx phase for VOx-based catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This innovative design, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase as the support, opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, focusing on doping with promoters like late transition metals and modifying carriers. These strategies aim to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and address deactivation problems in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Research is also exploring the use of single-atom catalysts, modifying acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen site ratios to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods for better catalyst screening.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand and traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, show industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase increase activity and selectivity to propene. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is crucial for active site creation, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups, can help overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability in nonoxidative PDH processes. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, leading to better catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure catalyst robustness at high temperatures. Promoters such as late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides are employed to increase resistance against coking, crucial for the commercial success of PDH technologies. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, particularly those utilizing V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3, show promise in overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts reveal optimized performance and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 achieved high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported on the stability of VOX/MCM-41 in PDH, noting full recovery with oxidative regeneration. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient and recyclable catalysts in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. While PDH is already utilized in industry, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, remains a significant challenge. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, promote Zn species dispersion, reducing side reactions. Their low cost, toxicity-free nature, and reusability make them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to address the limitations of steam cracking and catalytic cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion improves catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a key role. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH modes reveals the positive impact of CO2 presence on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation challenges through evolving design strategies, aiming to boost stability and recyclability. Literature acknowledges the pursuit of these strategies but lacks detailed specifics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, which is a significant challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and recyclability of PDH catalysts by inhibiting coke formation, preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles, and improving selectivity. Approaches include modifying supports to decrease acidity and improve thermal stability, alloying metals to alter electronic properties, and employing strong metal-support interactions to stabilize nanoparticles. These advancements are crucial for improving the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, requiring further research (Quotes 1-4). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke (Quotes 5-14). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution (Quotes 15-20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer an alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a focus of critical literature, show promise in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, enhancing selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalyst properties. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance range of V-based catalysts is significant, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, offering an eco-friendly route compared to oil-based methods. However, traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt face issues like toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. A novel ZnO-based catalyst, prepared through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, addresses these challenges. This catalyst, featuring active ZnOx species, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity than conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, making it a promising solution for enhanced propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation offer cogeneration potential. VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, or detrimental, and suffer from coking and cracking, innovative design strategies are being developed. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. A new method is desired that operates at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have developed a novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This method opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, effectively addressing the challenges of traditional PDH methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, like steam cracking, have spurred the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation problems in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve overall catalyst performance, supported by computational methods for better understanding and catalyst screening.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for propane activation, making these catalysts industrially relevant and cost-efficient in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing industrial demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as demonstrated by spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage on vanadium catalysts, which balance activity and stability, suppressing coke deposition and enhancing recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are pivotal, focusing on the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and employing alloying elements enhance stability and recyclability, ensuring commercial viability of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. PDH, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackles catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3, which exhibit superior stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized through gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in PDH reactions, with high propene selectivity. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports achieve high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts are suitable for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges, notably the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) offer insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the pressing need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. The zeolite's structure and acidity help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, with small ZnO clusters connected to the framework acting as active phases. These catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. As traditional sources like steam cracking and catalytic cracking struggle to meet demand without impacting co-product yields, selective processes such as PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) gain prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure, large pore size, high thermal and acid stability, and large specific surface area, are ideal for high chromium species dispersion. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield, with dealumination greatly affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites facilitates high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals that Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts enhance propene formation rate, unlike Cr-containing AlBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, catering to both oxidative and nonoxidative methods. These advancements are crucial in adapting to the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the potential of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. The use of reducible metal oxides, such as TiO2, can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also positively impact coke elimination. The addition of Sn not only inhibits CC bond cleavage and improves selectivity but also allows coke precursors to migrate from active metals to supports, enhancing catalyst stability. Strong metal-support interactions can prevent sintering of metal particles, as demonstrated by the high thermal stability of PtSn clusters on CeO2. The confinement effect provided by supports can prevent sintering and maintain the stability of catalysts during PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, directly addressing the catalyst challenges in this evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering an alternative production route, especially relevant post-shale gas production, making natural gas a competitive feedstock. While PDH using PtSn and CrOx catalysts can run continuously for years, challenges remain in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but lack the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems, deactivating too quickly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising, with O2 and CO2 as leading oxidants. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes, showing promise in boosting selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design must consider support nature, as metal-support interactions and acid sites influence VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face issues due to toxicity or ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, addresses these limitations. This catalyst, with a role for defective OH groups in active ZnOx species formation, shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, making it a promising solution for propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but faces challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome these issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while doped ceria shows promise for this purpose. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed, and proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors could cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in designing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. However, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these issues, a novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst has been developed for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a low-temperature method that reduces energy consumption and opens new avenues for efficient propane utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these limitations, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, focusing on doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve overall catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, show higher activity and selectivity to propene, particularly in the monoclinic phase with smaller crystallite sizes. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites crucial for propane activation, making these catalysts industrially relevant for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a viable alternative for propylene production amidst growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly boosts catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, exhibits outstanding PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, are being explored to mitigate deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts have been shown to suppress coke deposition, thereby improving catalyst stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure catalyst robustness at high temperatures. The use of additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increases resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods. V-based catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, show superior catalytic properties for PDH, avoiding thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate high catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH processes. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to be stable for PDH without gas-phase O2 and fully recoverable with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, suggesting V-based catalysts as suitable for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising route for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, hinders performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like Sn (Quote 7), modifying supports (Quote 8), adjusting Pt catalyst size (Quote 9), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (Quote 10). Computational simulations (Quote 11) offer insights into deactivation mechanisms. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, making the ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), including CO2-assisted PDH, emerges as a critical alternative. Innovative catalysts, like chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieving high propene selectivity. Redox Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, and switch operation mode reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that are selective for propylene production while minimizing side reactions, the optimization of particle size to balance active site availability and deactivation risk, and the use of supports that can inhibit coke formation and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is essential for the design of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts. Strategies like the use of reducible metal oxides, strong metal-support interactions, and confinement effects in mesoporous materials are being explored to enhance catalyst performance and longevity. These advancements aim to improve the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, making them more viable in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but deactivate too fast due to coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery through regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 and CO2 are key oxidizing agents, with O2 eliminating coke deposition but introducing overoxidation challenges, and CO2 being milder but less heat-producing. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but they require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst design must consider support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts, using Cr or Pt, face toxicity and ecological concerns. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offer environmental compatibility. These catalysts, particularly ZnOsilicalite-1, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, overcoming limitations of conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and improve stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on the membrane type and geometry. The challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical to performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. However, Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, a new PDH method at lower temperatures is sought to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been developed for the first time. This innovation opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity and fast deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for more efficient and sustainable propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a key propene production method. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the catalysts' potential in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. Innovatively, isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) were synthesized, showcasing exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Techniques like single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites promote selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation and deactivation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Strategies include using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to increase resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable PDH performance in the absence of O2 and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, already in use, faces a significant challenge in the form of coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, tackling the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework are identified as active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP) processes. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites favoring high selectivity to propene over propane cracking in AlBeta zeolites. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also the diversity of exposed atoms, affecting selectivity and stability. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as particle size decreases, impacting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity, but the fundamental active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH are still under investigation. Innovative design strategies are essential to overcome these challenges and advance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, tackling deactivation issues to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, adapting to changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production amid growing industrial demand and traditional method limitations, particularly relevant with the rise in shale gas production. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes to competitive levels, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic but introduces overoxidation risks. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, enhancing selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced deactivation poses a significant challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, like CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, such as V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows five times higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to higher V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance range of V-based catalysts is significant, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Current Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers environmental compatibility. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the new catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, underlining its potential in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can potentially cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, focusing on low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced for the first time, offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but faces challenges like unsatisfactory selectivity and stability due to high-temperature operations. To tackle these issues, researchers are innovating catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation problems in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism and the control of reaction temperatures to improve selectivity. Innovative catalysts, including single-atom catalysts and those with modified acid-base properties, are being developed to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods for better understanding and catalyst screening.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene by serving as a major on-purpose production method. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, combat deactivation issues. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This optimization is crucial for overcoming deactivation and improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, are being explored to suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies involve the use of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining long-term activity, are essential for commercial success. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and main-group metals, along with optimal metal-support interactions, contribute to increased robustness against coking and improved catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. V-based catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies by Bai et al. on V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and Sokolov et al. on VOX/MCM-41, VOX/SiO2-Al2O3, and VOX/Al2O3 catalysts demonstrate superior catalytic properties and stability, with the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlight the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit remarkable long-term stability in non-oxidative PDH, maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the severe impact of coke formation on the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH remains a significant challenge (Quote 3). Innovative design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These strategies aim to improve catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing the challenges posed by the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being developed, including the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts. These zeolites improve catalytic activity and stability by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions. They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. For instance, the fraction of active sites increases as metal particles shrink, impacting dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms. Pt-based catalysts, with their role in dehydrogenation, are being optimized to balance activity and selectivity, with a focus on inhibiting side reactions that lead to deactivation. The design of catalytic systems with enhanced performance is crucial, and strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms is essential for the development of more stable catalysts, and the inhibition of deactivation is a key requirement for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, as highlighted in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues persist, particularly with alternative metal oxides due to rapid coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity and reaction rate issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shifts in global energy dynamics, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative to conventional oil-based cracking methods, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, targeting stability and recyclability enhancement, have been made through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the critical issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, like CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows five times higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to the reduction of VO bonds, yielding active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts, though, are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst preparation method has been developed, addressing these issues. Supported ZnOx species form through a reaction with Zn atoms at high temperatures. The new catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making it a promising solution for industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They aim to lower energy requirements and enhance efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, improving stability, and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors could cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these challenges, a novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed. This innovation, which operates at lower temperatures, reduces energy consumption and opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically performed at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while highly active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving the reaction of reducing reactants with highly reactive oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface, is central to oxidative dehydrogenation, where oxygen vacancies are created and then refilled by O2 or CO2, forming a catalytic cycle. These strategies, supported by computational methods, aim to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation, making PDH a viable solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional propylene production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using ZrO2-based catalysts, overcome deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for creating active sites through the release of lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment. This tuning of phase composition and crystallite size optimizes catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are central to PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. Specifically, spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) were synthesized, achieving exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts, boasting high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group presence on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts can mitigate deactivation issues, improving performance in nonoxidative PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen in an endothermic reaction. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include using single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the superior catalytic properties and stability of V-based catalysts, particularly when supported on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH reactions. These catalysts show high activity, stability, and recyclability, with VOX/MCM-41 exhibiting full recovery through oxidative regeneration and maintaining high propene selectivity over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the process faces challenges, notably the formation of coke, which significantly hampers the performance and stability of catalysts (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6) and alloying platinum with metals such as tin (Quote 7). These advancements aim to improve catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for an updated and systematic approach to coke formation on Pt catalysts (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by directly converting propane, avoiding steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with active ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalysts, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a crucial role. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield, and dealumination affects catalytic properties, with SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, to meet evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. [Quote 26] highlights that the primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to decreased catalytic activity. [Quote 50] suggests that separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity. [Quote 60] demonstrates that alloying with diverse promoters can modulate the surface electronic structure, impacting the reactivity and selectivity of the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. However, specific details of these strategies remain unexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They are crucial given the economic shift towards natural gas from shale gas production. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH to competitive levels, challenges remain in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer an alternative, focusing on catalyst design to tackle deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts show promise in improving PDH reaction selectivity and efficiency, addressing key challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to tackle deactivation, improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, have shown that crystallization temperature influences catalytic performance by affecting the distribution of surface V species. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Innovative techniques, like the direct co-assembly process for V/SiO2 catalysts, enhance the interaction between V5+ species and the silica support, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. The influence of gelation and calcination temperatures on VOx/SiO2 catalysts also impacts performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability, with VOx/ZrO2 exhibiting higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. The nature of the support is crucial in catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. The relative proportion and stability of the most active V species can be tuned by varying preparation methods, with the most active V-based catalysts showing significant performance variation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative method has been developed for preparing environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts form ZnOx species through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, with defective OH groups playing a key role. The new ZnO-based catalyst, ZnOsilicalite-1, was tested under industrial conditions and showed three times higher propene productivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, while maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, challenges arise as alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and doped ceria shows promise for this purpose. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially co-producing alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these challenges, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity and fast deactivation, particularly with Pt-based catalysts. Innovative strategies, including the addition of promoters like late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies, is central to oxidative PDH. To overcome deactivation issues, researchers are exploring single-atom catalysts, adjusting acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen site ratios on catalyst surfaces. Computational methods support these developments by elucidating structure-reactivity relationships and screening catalyst candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2, crucial for PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the growing demand for propylene by converting abundant propane into propene. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their performance and earth's abundance, are key in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as evidenced by a synthesized catalyst (CoOx@NC/S-1) that achieved 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key cause of deactivation. By controlling the coverage of hydroxyl groups, it's possible to balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Techniques include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. The use of promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, increases robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements are also key to improving catalyst stability and recyclability, ensuring commercial viability of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. Focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized through gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, making V-based catalysts a strong candidate for commercial PDH. Studies show that VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit high catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in PDH, with the latter showing remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining approximately 91% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the increasing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a solution to meet growing propylene demand, bypassing traditional steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, addresses deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP) processes. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a crucial role. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH modes with and without CO2 demonstrates the positive impact of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. For instance, the fraction of active sites increases as metal particles shrink, but this also diversifies the local environments of exposed atoms, impacting selectivity and stability. Pt-based catalysts, while effective, face challenges from side reactions that lead to deactivation, necessitating the development of design strategies that enhance propylene selectivity and inhibit deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method amid growing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, directly addressing key challenges in the field.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow for continuous operation, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Focusing on vanadium oxide catalysts, these strategies enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency, as evidenced by their kinetics in propane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including CADH for Al2O3 synthesis, P and Mg modifications for VOx/Al2O3, and co-assembly for V/SiO2, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits high activity due to the reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. Preparation methods and support materials significantly impact catalytic performance, with the most active V-based catalysts showing STYs 3-4 times less than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers environmental compatibility. This catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, challenges arise as alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts' nature is critical for performance, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the challenges of costly, scarce, or detrimental PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which suffer from coking, cracking, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode, researchers have developed a novel CoSn/NC catalyst for microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This non-precious catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase as support, enables direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts due to poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, crucial in oxidative PDH, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, leading to oxygen vacancies and a catalytic cycle. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, releasing heat. However, this requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. The activation of the CH bond in propane necessitates high temperatures, making the reaction kinetically controlled. Research focuses on developing catalysts with improved performance through single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modification, and oxygen site ratio control, supported by computational methods for better understanding and catalyst screening.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, leveraging the abundant propane from shale-gas deposits. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH processes. An innovative design strategy, the active site isolation, significantly enhances catalytic performance. This strategy was applied in synthesizing cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers supported on silicalite-1 zeolite, resulting in a catalyst with exceptional PDH performance, high propane conversion, and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding and controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts have been shown to improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, leading to better catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an alternative, converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining long-term activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In the face of growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, particularly those utilizing V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids, address catalyst deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, when supported on Al2O3 and MCM-41, exhibit high activity and stability in PDH reactions, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. The optimized VOX-SiO2 catalyst maintains remarkable long-term stability through eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over 4 hours, while propene selectivity remains at 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges, notably coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate deactivation issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) offer insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes convert propane directly to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, with their improved activity and stability due to the zeolite's textural properties and well-adjusted acidity, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods fall short, prompting the exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), are crucial in the oxidative pathway, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design to boost stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms, and optimizing particle size to balance activity and stability. The use of bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports and metals are among the methods being explored to inhibit deactivation. For instance, the interaction between Pt and Cu can elevate the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitate propylene desorption, improving selectivity. Additionally, the introduction of metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in PDH processes, though detailed specifics remain undisclosed.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues persist, mainly due to coke deposition, hindering full activity recovery. Innovative catalyst design is crucial for stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 and CO2 are leading oxidants, with O2 preventing coke formation but posing overoxidation risks, and CO2 being milder but less heat-producing. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions, requiring catalyst regeneration and facing toxicity issues. Further research is essential to optimize these processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg modification for anti-coking capability, enhance stability and recyclability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 show improved performance due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. However, Cr and Pt catalysts used in commercial PDH technologies have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration processes. An innovative method has been developed to create environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts form ZnOx species through a reaction with OH groups at high temperatures, with defective OH groups playing a key role. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrated three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making it a promising solution to enhance PDH efficiency and address catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency. Catalyst deactivation challenges are being tackled through innovative design strategies, including the use of supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and the creation of membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these issues, a new low-temperature PDH method is sought to reduce energy use. Innovations include the CoSn/NC catalyst for microwave catalytic reaction mode, offering a novel microwave catalyst for direct propane dehydrogenation, opening a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies include the use of single-atom catalysts with well-defined structures, tuning acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen site ratios to balance activity and selectivity. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts, aiding in understanding C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates. The MVK mechanism, characteristic of oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies. The reaction's thermodynamic limitations are addressed by adding an oxidant, which reacts with hydrogen to produce water and release heat. However, the reaction must be conducted at lower temperatures to achieve higher selectivity, as products are prone to further oxidation. The activation of the CH bond in propane, a rate-determining step, necessitates higher temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 increase activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for PDH performance. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zrcus sites, vital for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, notably boosts catalytic performance. Specifically, spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) were synthesized, achieving exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. This leads to better catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure catalyst robustness at high temperatures for commercial viability. Additional promoters and optimal metal-support interactions further contribute to the catalyst's longevity and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on materials like mesoporous silica, Al2O3, and MCM-41, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized through gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 achieved high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable PDH performance in the absence of O2 and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. also noted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 in PDH, attributing it to the stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showing remarkable stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. While PDH is already utilized in industry, challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, hinder performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the cofeeding of hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals like tin for added benefits, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the demands of the chemical industry and adapting to changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework are proposed as active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, particularly in the presence of CO2, offering an oxidative pathway for propene synthesis. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites, followed by chromium dispersion, yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that bolster stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing the issue of catalyst deactivation, which significantly impacts the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability of PDH catalysts by improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions are among the approaches being developed to overcome deactivation challenges and improve the overall efficiency of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is essential for the design of more stable and selective PDH catalysts. The fraction of active sites and their local environments play a critical role in the PDH process, influencing the selectivity and stability of the catalysts. Innovative design strategies, such as the use of geometric models and electronic states, can significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, leading to higher propylene selectivity and lower dehydrogenation activity. The challenge of catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, can be mitigated through the design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation, with a focus on modifying supports, metals, and treatments. The modification of supports, such as alumina, with alkaline promoters and the addition of reducible metal oxides, can decrease acidity and improve the dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, enhancing stability and anti-coking capability. Changes in reaction conditions, such as the cofeeding of H2 and CO2, can also positively affect coke elimination and maintain catalyst stability. The confinement situation offered by supports can provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals and exert spatial constraints to prevent sintering. The use of mesoporous materials and zeolites as supports can confine metal nanoparticles inside, preventing severe sintering during reduction operations. Regeneration of catalysts under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous regeneration may not entirely restore catalytic performance due to structural transformation and eventual loss of activity and selectivity in consecutive cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, directly addressing the catalyst challenges in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, requiring further research for viable regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the critical issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    