Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address challenges in propylene production by enhancing stability and recyclability. Mesoporous Al2O3 supports synthesized through the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) influence VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance, with optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) resulting in high concentrations of isolated V3+ species, crucial for catalytic activity. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, with propene yields of 1927% over 6 h DDH reaction. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance, achieving high initial propene yield and stable selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with one of the highest VOx containing catalysts. VOx/ZrO2 is significantly more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Preparation methods and support materials significantly influence catalyst performance, with moderate vanadium doping levels promoting highly dispersed vanadium species and isolated VOx active sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and environmental issues. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts struggle with toxicity and regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, offers an eco-friendly solution, with defective OH groups crucial for active ZnOx species. Compared to KCrOx/Al2O3, this catalyst boosts propene productivity threefold at similar selectivity, marking a significant PDH advancement.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. VOx phase nature is critical for high alkene selectivity, while NiOx-based catalysts show potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, aiming to overcome decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking. Energy consumption is also high under conventional reaction modes. Innovative strategies aim to develop new PDH methods at lower temperatures to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing the challenges of coking and cracking while reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as an alternative production route. This endothermic process, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts due to poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability from coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, is crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Efforts to optimize catalyst performance aim to balance activity and selectivity while minimizing byproduct formation, addressing the thermodynamic limitations and side reactions in PDH systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a solution with high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts release lattice oxygen, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity to propene, improving PDH performance in response to industrial needs and energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH techniques emerge as a viable solution. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy significantly boosts catalytic performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized via a two-step process, demonstrates outstanding PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are highlighted as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a promising alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To combat catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on stability and recyclability. These include employing promoters like late transition metals and optimizing metal-support interactions, crucial for PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Bai et al. found V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 exhibit high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts maintain stable properties and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlighted the role of VOX species in VOX/MCM-41's superior catalytic properties. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts show remarkable stability over eight cycles, with propane conversion gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. These findings support V-based catalysts' potential in commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst surging industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 1, 2). However, Pt catalysts used in PDH face significant challenges, particularly coke formation, which undermines performance and stability (Quote 3). To address this issue, innovative strategies are being explored, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke buildup (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as Sn for enhanced benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the escalating demand for propylene while overcoming the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, making them cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, improving catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. This approach addresses catalyst deactivation challenges, making PDH a promising solution in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, although specific details are not provided.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability by understanding the role of active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and the impact of particle size on deactivation. The development of PDH techniques is crucial in meeting increasing industrial demand for propylene, while innovative catalyst design, such as alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, is being explored to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. These approaches are essential for enhancing the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as evidenced by studies showing improved propylene selectivity and stability through the use of Pt/Cu single-atom alloys and the addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH stands as a promising alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by improved selectivity and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation reactions, aligning with evolving industrial needs and energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification aids in anti-coking capabilities. Synthesis methods, such as CADH for Al2O3 and co-assembly for V/SiO2, optimize metal-support interactions. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit high activity due to facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. These strategies significantly impact PDH processes, with the most active catalysts achieving STYs that, while less active than Pt catalysts, represent significant advancements.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative for propylene production, overcoming limitations of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine regeneration in traditional catalysts. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, provides an environmentally compatible solution. Defective OH groups are crucial for the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst exhibits three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. These techniques lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, making the process more efficient. However, temperature increases lead to decreased alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome these issues, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, and the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux at dehydrogenation temperatures is crucial. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored for improved efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer the potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts persists, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. The design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking. Seeking to reduce energy consumption, researchers aim for low-temperature PDH methods. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability. The use of Sn as a promoter in CoSn/NC catalysts increases lifetime by reducing deactivation by coking, offering a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving lattice oxygen, is pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation, requiring careful temperature control to prevent over-oxidation. These advancements address catalyst deactivation, improving efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, critical for propylene production, offer high propene selectivity and address limitations of traditional methods. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. This advancement significantly improves recyclability, meeting industrial demands for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, meet rising propylene demand and overcome production constraints. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are central to PDH. The active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. A novel CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, demonstrating innovative design to enhance stability and address deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides serve as effective PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies targeting the control of surface-bound hydroxyl groups to prevent coke deposition, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts withstand high temperatures, maintaining activity. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, shape, and alloying elements, improves stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the innovation of V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. showcased high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to exhibit stable PDH performance and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, confirming their potential for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintained high propane conversion and propene selectivity over eight cycles, demonstrating remarkable long-term stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production (Quote 2). However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies, including reductive gas cofeeding, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, and adjusting catalyst size, are being developed to reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements aim to meet the growing demand for propylene while addressing catalyst deactivation challenges (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH offers a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. ZnO clusters, connected to the zeolite framework, act as active phases, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as a viable alternative to conventional production methods. Alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), PDH addresses the limitations of traditional techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion significantly improves catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. SMSI, in particular, can be generated from chemical reactions at the metal-oxide interface, leading to highly stable PtSn clusters even at high temperatures. The confinement situation offered by supports can provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals and exert spatial constraints to avoid sintering. These approaches collectively aim to reduce coke formation, prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, and improve the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as evidenced by studies showing improved selectivity and stability. [Quote 10] highlights the impact of valence states on reactivity, while [Quote 31] emphasizes the importance of insights into deactivation mechanisms for designing more stable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH is recognized as a promising alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability, reflecting ongoing research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Current dehydrogenation technologies, including PtSn and CrOx catalysts, face challenges like fast deactivation due to coke deposition. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have not proven viable, deactivating too quickly. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored with O2 and CO2 as oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability. Further research is essential to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, in particular, improve selectivity and efficiency, making them a critical focus for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking highlight nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues and aligning with global energy trends.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternatives to traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, increase V5+ interaction with silica, enhancing activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts, showcasing the ongoing efforts in catalyst design to meet industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative for propylene production, overcoming oil-based process limitations. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, provides environmental compatibility and superior performance, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions compared to conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements but faces challenges like decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Conventional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and susceptible to deactivation, with high energy consumption. Innovative strategies are being explored for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy use. A breakthrough involves a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This development targets deactivation issues, stability enhancement, and recyclability improvement in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, which operate at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, though active, struggle with poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. These approaches aim to overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with the catalyst's surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant can break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to prevent over-oxidation, a critical consideration in optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, critical for on-purpose propylene production, offer high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhances activity and selectivity, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The catalyst's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating adaptability in PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1, with spatially isolated active sites, demonstrate exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, noted for their activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies aim to control the surface structure of these catalysts, particularly by leveraging surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, focusing on robust catalysts that can withstand high temperatures and maintain long-term activity. Techniques involve using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to increase resistance to coking, optimizing metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size and shape to boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, particularly γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, show promise in enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies demonstrate these catalysts' superior properties, maintaining high propene selectivity (~91%) and showing long-term stability over multiple cycles. Notably, the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst exhibits full recovery with oxidative regeneration, highlighting its potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the severe impact of coke formation on the catalytic performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH poses a significant challenge (Quote 3). To address this, innovative strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6) and alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) (Quote 7). These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. There is a recognized need for a systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH (Quote 17), highlighting ongoing efforts to improve catalyst performance and meet the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, producing active ZnO clusters under precise conditions. The resulting catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, estimated to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their high thermal and acid stability, facilitate high chromium dispersion, improving catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive effect of CO2 on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts, underscoring the importance of catalyst design in addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, meeting growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that balance selectivity and stability, understanding deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and employing design approaches like alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions. For instance, smaller particle sizes can increase the number of active sites but also lead to diverse local environments that affect reactivity. The challenge is to optimize the fraction of certain active sites to prevent side reactions that cause deactivation. Understanding the role of Pt geometric sites and electronic states is key to controlling propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to improve catalyst performance. For example, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can enhance stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as the addition of H2 or CO2, can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst life. The confinement of metal clusters within supports can also prevent sintering and maintain catalyst activity at high temperatures. These design strategies aim to create more stable and efficient PDH catalysts that can meet the demands of the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Ongoing research develops innovative catalyst design strategies to address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, though specifics remain underexplored.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx facing deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperature but risking overoxidation (Quote 8). CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues (Quote 19), needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key innovation, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and oil-based cracking limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, stands as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its economic advantage, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on improving catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes high-surface-area Al2O3, P modification reduces VOx polymerization, and Mg addition enhances anti-coking capabilities, improving catalyst stability and activity. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high dispersion and stability of VOx species. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 show improved performance due to the influence of acid sites and the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial, affecting metal-support interactions and VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts by about 34 times.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, offering an eco-friendly solution to oil-based cracking. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have issues with Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine-based regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, addresses these issues. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst demonstrated three times higher propene productivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, with similar propene selectivity, making it a promising solution for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. However, increased temperatures can decrease alkene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. The design of NiOx-based ODH catalysts is also explored, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing the need for cost-effective and sustainable propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being widely used despite challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues and improve catalyst performance, addressing the growing demand for propylene and the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are critical for propylene production, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues. Optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts create active sites, enhancing activity and selectivity to propene. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 are key to performance, as they facilitate the creation of coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations, crucial for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH techniques, notably cobalt-based catalysts, offer a viable alternative to traditional methods. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques, particularly using supported vanadium oxides, emerge as promising alternatives. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, specifically the coverage of hydroxyl groups, to balance activity and stability. By tuning hydroxyl group coverage, catalysts can suppress coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, including the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to resist coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements maintain activity at high temperatures, ensuring PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH using V-based catalysts, notably VOX-SiO2, emerges as a viable alternative. These catalysts, supported on mesoporous solids, demonstrate high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability over eight cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% and propene selectivity remaining at 91%. This suggests V-based catalysts could address deactivation challenges, enhancing industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. However, Pt catalysts face deactivation challenges, notably coke formation, which hampers performance (Quote 3). Innovative strategies include adding reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting catalyst size (Quote 9). These advancements aim to improve catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, converting propane directly to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, producing low-cost, non-toxic, and reusable ZnO catalysts ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected demand for propylene reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, significantly boosts PDH efficiency. These zeolites, characterized by high thermal and acid stability, facilitate high chromium dispersion, essential for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity promotes high selectivity to propene, and switching between PDH with and without CO2 over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites enhances propene formation, underscoring the catalysts' effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, which show superior activity and selectivity but require a fundamental understanding of active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms. Particle size is crucial, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments. Electronic states of the catalyst significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Design strategies aim to inhibit deactivation through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments, focusing on the prevention of coke formation, which is the primary cause of catalyst deactivation. By understanding and manipulating the geometric and electronic structures of catalysts, researchers can design more stable and selective PDH catalysts, optimizing performance and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for meeting rising propylene demand, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are evolving to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Literature acknowledges the need for further development in detailed strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PtSn and CrOx catalysts enable competitive PDH processes, but challenges remain, including noble metal loading, stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, requiring further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces issues like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential for selective hydrogen combustion but need frequent regeneration and have toxicity concerns. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is essential for effective oxidative dehydrogenation, as highlighted by the need for comprehensive catalyst comparison and the exploration of solid oxygen carriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are advancing propylene production, tackling limitations of conventional methods. Innovations in catalyst design address deactivation and stability issues. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance is enhanced by optimizing crystallization temperature, affecting acid sites and surface V species. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to increased V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional catalysts using Cr or Pt face toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, is environmentally compatible. Defective OH groups are crucial for the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making processes more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx phase nature is critical for performance, and NiOx-based catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, though effective, are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Seeking low-temperature PDH to reduce energy use, researchers have developed a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts. This innovation, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as support, opens new avenues for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts being active but facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, is crucial in oxidative PDH. These strategies seek to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve selectivity through controlled oxygen sites and metal-oxide interfaces, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity and tackle deactivation issues through innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for propane activation, by improving PDH performance through optimized phase composition and crystallite size, facilitating lattice oxygen release and creating active Zrcus sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH is a viable propylene production alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance, as exemplified by CoOx@NC/S-1, which achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxides, offer an alternative route. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, a key deactivation factor, improving stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to minimize coke formation and deactivation, ensuring commercial PDH viability. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are developed using promoters and optimal metal-support interactions, which improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports, like γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, have shown enhanced stability and recyclability. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to be stable for PDH without gas-phase O2, fully recoverable with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed VOX/MCM-41's superior catalytic properties, indicating its potential for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrated remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over 4 hours and propene selectivity remaining at 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, hinders performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct conversion of propane to propylene, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design, such as ZnO catalysts supported by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. The zeolite's structure and acidity disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, while small ZnO clusters act as active phases. These catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and selective processes like olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are gaining significance. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieving high propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, directly addressing the challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. However, catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge, leading to the development of innovative design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on overcoming deactivation issues through the optimization of active site structures and understanding dehydrogenation mechanisms. The evolution of PDH techniques and catalyst design strategies is crucial for meeting the demands of the changing global energy landscape and ensuring the efficiency and sustainability of propylene production. As highlighted, the fraction of certain active sites increases with smaller metal particles (Quote 5), and Pt-based catalysts have shown promise in propylene production (Quote 11), underscoring the importance of these strategies in addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for meeting rising industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial in the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting rising propylene demand, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Challenges include catalyst deactivation, particularly with alternative metal oxides like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces issues like overoxidation and heat management (Quotes 5, 9, 11). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require addressing catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity for industrial viability (Quotes 16, 19, 20). Further research is essential to develop effective catalysts and reaction systems (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance through CADH for mesoporous Al2O3 synthesis, increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to direct co-assembly. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 properties. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and VOx/ZrO2 show promise as supports due to high surface area, thermal stability, and production of active V3+ species. Catalyst design must consider support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical oil-based cracking alternative for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, forming ZnOx species through reductive treatment, addresses these challenges. Tested under industrial conditions, it shows three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, making it a promising solution for enhanced PDH processes, as per comparative studies with commercial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions (Quote 1). Supported oxides of p-block metals show promise for selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 10), and membrane reactors with high surface area are crucial for efficiency (Quote 13). Doped ceria enhances selectivity (Quote 11), and membrane type and geometry impact reactor efficiency (Quote 12). Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy (Quote 14). Challenges include decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion (Quote 22) and the critical nature of the VOx phase for catalyst performance (Quote 46). NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms (Quote 48). Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts (Quote 51).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging. Traditional PDH catalysts, reliant on Cr6 and Pt, are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, a novel approach is being explored to achieve direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption. A non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, functioning as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been developed for the first time. This innovation opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, aiming to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C. Pt catalysts, while active, struggle with poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These approaches address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH, following the MVK mechanism involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies. Careful temperature control is crucial for high selectivity, and understanding reaction pathways on catalysts remains a focus.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, meet rising industrial demand for propylene. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, enhance stability and recyclability. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity to propene, addressing deactivation issues and improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH techniques are pivotal, utilizing cobalt catalysts for efficiency. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieved 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, known for high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, prevent coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in enhancing stability and recyclability by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, featuring late transition metals and optimized metal-support interactions, are essential for commercial viability, sustaining activity at high temperatures over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling thermodynamic equilibrium constraints and minimizing carbon deposition. Innovative design strategies, notably V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for processing conditions, exhibit superior activity and stability, making them a promising choice. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showcase high stability and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, underscoring the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn), modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the urgent need for propylene in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability, making them low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, expected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are gaining traction. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. The complex mechanism of CO2-assisted PDH involves redox cycles between Cr sites, significantly impacting propene yield. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts, with SiBeta's low acidity favoring high propene selectivity and AlBeta's high acidity promoting propane cracking. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands as a promising alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, effectively addressing the challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts with optimized active sites and dehydrogenation pathways. Particle size and coordination numbers significantly influence the fraction of active sites, impacting the selectivity and stability of the catalysts. Deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, are major concerns, but can be mitigated through the design of specific reaction ensembles and the modification of supports and metals. For instance, the use of single-atom alloys and intermetallic compounds can improve propylene selectivity by inhibiting deep dehydrogenation side reactions. Additionally, the incorporation of reducible metal oxides and the adjustment of reaction conditions, such as H2 and CO2 cofeeding, can reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst stability. The strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) and confinement effects provided by supports like CeO2 and mesoporous materials also play a critical role in preventing sintering and maintaining the dispersion of active metals. These design strategies are essential for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for both oxidative and nonoxidative techniques.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures, but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability. Further research is necessary to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is gaining prominence as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. To address the persistent issue of thermal deactivation, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, to improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies. P modification and Mg addition enhance stability by reducing VOx polymerization and coke formation. CADH for Al2O3 synthesis and direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts improve V species interaction and dispersion. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst performance is influenced by support materials, preparation methods, and the proportion of active V species, with the most active V-based catalysts achieving significant STYs, albeit less than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have issues with toxicity and regeneration, leading to the development of eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed at high temperatures, exhibit three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, effectively addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements but faces challenges with temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, achieving sufficient propene yield remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, researchers are developing new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced. Here, cobalt serves as the active site, tin acts as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, opening a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and the limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These advancements address the need for efficient PDH processes, crucial for meeting global energy demands and overcoming thermodynamic limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts release lattice oxygen for propane activation, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase showing higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH techniques utilizing shale-gas propane are emerging as a viable alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. Active site isolation, as demonstrated by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, significantly enhances performance and stability, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques, particularly using supported vanadium oxides, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on optimizing surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Incorporating promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, and metal oxides boosts robustness against coking, critical for PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining traction as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Notably, mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts exhibit high activity and stability, while optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. These findings underscore the potential of V-based catalysts in commercial PDH processes, offering a solution to catalyst deactivation and stability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production (Quote 2). However, coke formation significantly hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring the technique's effectiveness in meeting the increasing demand for propylene. There is a need for an updated and systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have led to the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, which directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative strategies employ high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhancing activity and stability. These catalysts, featuring small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues and boosts stability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are optimal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are pivotal in the oxidative pathway, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly affecting propene yield. Dealumination influences catalytic properties, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high propene selectivity and high acidity in AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH offers a viable solution. Ongoing research develops innovative catalyst design strategies to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing both oxidative and nonoxidative methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions and improve propylene selectivity. For instance, the interaction between Pt and Cu has been shown to elevate the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitate propylene desorption. The addition of reducible metal oxides, such as TiO2, improves catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying the acidity of supports, like alumina, with alkaline promoters can curb support acidity and reduce coke formation. Changes in reaction conditions, such as co-feeding hydrogen and CO2, can also positively impact coke elimination. The confinement of metal nanoparticles within zeolite frameworks provides thermal stability and prevents sintering. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by hydrogen reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts. These strategies collectively aim to improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes by overcoming catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for meeting rising propylene demand, overcoming traditional production limitations. Ongoing research develops innovative catalyst design strategies to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though detailed methodologies remain under development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition. Innovative design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 and CO2 as oxidants avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke deposition but requiring caution to avoid overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have led to the emergence of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, optimizing propylene production efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are addressing industrial demand for propylene, with catalyst design strategies enhancing stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification decreases coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. Innovative synthesis methods, like CADH for Al2O3 and co-assembly for V/SiO2, increase surface area and active species, leading to higher activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile reduction of VO bonds, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability, with the nature of the support and preparation methods significantly influencing the proportion and stability of active V species, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst achieves three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, as demonstrated by ZnOsilicalite-1.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. However, challenges with temperature and selectivity persist. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of this approach depends on the membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed, potentially offering electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. These strategies address the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion and the critical nature of the VOx phase in VOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address the challenges of traditional methods by utilizing a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under MCRM. This novel approach reduces energy consumption and overcomes deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, effectively utilizing abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including selectivity, deactivation, and stability at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism to balance activity and selectivity, avoiding thermodynamic limitations and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, critical for meeting growing industrial demand for propylene, are advancing through innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design. Optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes enhance propene selectivity and activity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, thereby improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, address growing propylene demand by converting shale-gas propane. Cobalt's abundance and performance make it ideal for PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as exemplified by CoOx@NC/S-1, which exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxide catalysts, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements aim to optimize selective dehydrogenation and reduce coke formation, crucial for commercial PDH technologies. Robust catalysts, with optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size, are key to withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking, further improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH presents a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrated the superior catalytic properties and stability of VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2 catalysts in PDH reactions, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes, maintaining high propene selectivity and long-term stability across multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts, are being developed to mitigate deactivation. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites support ZnO catalysts, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions. Active phases, small ZnO clusters, are produced under controlled conditions, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are crucial for meeting industrial needs. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox chromium species are pivotal in propene yield, while the acidity of zeolite substrates like SiBeta and AlBeta significantly influences catalytic properties, affecting selectivity and propane cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, optimizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address the issue of catalyst deactivation, which is a significant challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and recyclability of PDH catalysts by improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Key approaches include the use of alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create specific reaction ensembles, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to stabilize nanoparticles. These advancements are crucial for improving the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes in the context of changing global energy landscapes. As [Quote 1] highlights, the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH are not fully understood, making it challenging to design effective catalysts. However, [Quote 10] and [Quote 11] show that the valence states of Pt (Pt0 or Ptx+) have a significant impact on the reactivity of propane conversion, and that single-dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% conversion of propane. [Quote 26] emphasizes that the primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation, which can be inhibited by strategies such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments as [Quote 34] suggests. [Quote 49] summarizes effective strategies for inhibiting coke, including separating active metal components to improve propylene selectivity as [Quote 50] demonstrates. [Quote 60] and [Quote 61] show that alloying with diverse promoters can modulate the surface electronic structure and reactivity, while [Quote 63] highlights the role of reducible metal oxides in improving catalytic stability and selectivity. [Quote 70] suggests that changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination. [Quote 89] and [Quote 90] discuss the importance of strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) in preventing sintering, while [Quote 97] and [Quote 100] show that confinement situations offered by supports can provide high surface areas for dispersing active metals and prevent sintering. [Quote 111] highlights the effectiveness of regenerating catalysts under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction to remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, as detailed literature remains underdeveloped.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts, like metal oxides, face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, necessitating further research (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation, respectively (Quotes 8, 11). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity hinder industrial viability (Quote 19). Innovative design strategies are essential for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, aiming to resolve these issues for industrial application (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a highlighted strategy, enhance selectivity and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing stability and recyclability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production challenges, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price advantage of propane over propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a significant hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing key deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg addition boosts anti-coking properties. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 increases Lewis acid sites, improving catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs strengthens V5+ interaction with silica, achieving high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, produces more V3+ species, crucial for high activity. Catalyst design considers support nature, influencing metal-support interactions and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Addressing the limitations of toxic Cr- and ecologically harmful Pt-based catalysts, innovative ZnO-based catalysts are emerging. These catalysts, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, demonstrate about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, effectively tackling deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand for propylene. PDH can lower the energy requirement for dehydrogenation, making the process more efficient. Challenges remain, such as decreased alkene selectivity with higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These include the use of supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion, the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, and the creation of membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts persists, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. The design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these issues, there's a need for a new PDH method at lower temperatures to save energy. Researchers have developed a novel approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, which acts as a microwave catalyst for the first time, offering a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovative catalyst design strategy, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce coking, and carbon nitride as support, addresses deactivation challenges, enhances stability, and improves recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but faces challenges like poor selectivity, deactivation, and instability at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. The MVK mechanism is central to oxidative dehydrogenation, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, added oxidants react with hydrogen, releasing heat, but higher selectivity requires lower temperatures. Research is exploring single-atom catalysts and acid-base property modifications to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using ZrO2-based catalysts, offer high propene selectivity. These catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show superior activity and selectivity to propene, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrate superior PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, thanks to an innovative active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, meeting industrial demand and overcoming traditional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxides serve as effective PDH catalysts, with surface-bound hydroxyl groups suppressing coke deposition, a key deactivation cause. Tuning hydroxyl group coverage optimally balances activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial for addressing deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures and maintain activity over extended periods, directly addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior catalytic activity and stability. Bai et al. demonstrated high activity and stability with mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts, while Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH performance and full recovery with oxidative regeneration for VOX/MCM-41 catalysts. Rodemerck et al. confirmed VOX/MCM-41's superior catalytic properties for PDH, underscoring its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative for large-scale production. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation issues, primarily due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and the PDH reaction network, aiding in the development of more efficient catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting the growing demand for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The resulting ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production in response to growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable solution. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing key challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. The evolution of PDH techniques focuses on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller metal particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify local environments, affecting reactivity (Quote 3). Understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is crucial. Strategies include alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions to enhance selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent metal agglomeration (Quote 51). These approaches improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH catalysts, making them more suitable for industrial use in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, particularly in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for meeting rising propylene demand, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, challenges remain in noble metal loading, stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome deactivation and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being studied for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations have spotlighted PDH techniques as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. This is evidenced by improved selectivity and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer alternatives for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Catalyst design strategies, like P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, boosting stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits, improving performance. Synthesis methods, including CADH for Al2O3 and co-assembly for V/SiO2, increase surface area and active species, leading to higher activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile reduction of VO bonds, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution, crucial for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method now prepares environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, which form ZnOx species through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in this process. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the new ZnO-based catalyst triples propene productivity while maintaining similar selectivity, effectively addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. Challenges include decreased alkene selectivity with temperature increases due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, utilizing supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux and surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer cogeneration potential. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts and the critical nature of the VOx phase for VOx-based catalysts are ongoing challenges. Investigation of NiOx-based ODH catalysts with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms is underway. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are advancing. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking, with high energy consumption. Innovative strategies aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM has been introduced, offering a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing key challenges in PDH processes, including coking and cracking, while reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but facing challenges such as poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies address deactivation issues, improve efficiency, and balance activity and selectivity, reducing byproduct formation. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, is crucial in oxidative PDH. Advanced catalysts, like single-atom catalysts (SACs) and those with controlled oxygen sites, are being explored to improve overall PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a key method, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing activity and selectivity. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes improve performance, while ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites for propane activation, demonstrating adaptability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1, show exceptional PDH performance: 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, overcoming catalyst deactivation challenges. Active site isolation strategies enhance catalytic performance, crucial for long-term utility in changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as PDH catalysts due to their activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies focus on hydroxyl groups to improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation by minimizing coke formation. Promoters enhance stability and recyclability, critical for commercial success. Robust catalysts maintain activity at high temperatures, ensuring long-term performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH using V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports emerges as a viable alternative. Bai et al. found high activity and stability in V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. reported full recovery of VOX/MCM-41 catalysts with oxidative regeneration, showcasing VOX species stability. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 in PDH, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial processes, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production. PDH, already in use, faces challenges with Pt catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies, including reductive gas addition, Pt alloying with metals like tin, support modification, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts, aim to reduce coke formation, improve recyclability, and enhance stability in PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, converting propane directly to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured framework and controlled acidity, disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, producing active ZnO clusters. The resulting ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. PDH, especially in the presence of O2 or CO2, is gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for overcoming deactivation issues. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are crucial in the oxidative pathway, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts with optimized particle sizes to increase the number of active sites while managing the diverse local environments of exposed atoms. The challenge of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation is being addressed through the design of catalysts with selective active sites that favor propylene production over deep dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis. Recent studies highlight the role of single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals, which facilitate propylene desorption and inhibit deep dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance involves the inhibition of deactivation through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 improves catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as the cofeeding of H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst stability. The confinement of Pt clusters within supports like zeolites or the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) can prevent sintering and maintain the stability of PDH catalysts at high temperatures. These design strategies are essential for the evolution of PDH as a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production alternative, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the limitations of traditional propylene production methods, catering to rising industrial demand. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for stability enhancement. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation, respectively. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key innovation, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus boosting propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a promising alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Crystallization temperature of Al2O3 supports affects the distribution of surface V species, impacting catalytic performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, with high proportions of active V3+ species. Support nature is crucial in catalyst design, influencing metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through reductive treatment, are environmentally friendly. Defective OH groups are crucial for active ZnOx species formation. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the ZnO-based catalyst shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, overcoming deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propene production, addressing energy-intensive traditional methods. ODH reduces energy requirements, hinging on innovative catalyst and process design. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are developed for efficiency. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors explore cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may guide efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed to address these issues. This innovation reduces energy consumption by operating at lower temperatures and opens a new route for efficient propane utilization. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to minimize coking, offers enhanced stability and recyclability, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, is central to oxidative PDH. Temperature control is crucial for maximizing selectivity, as adding an oxidant can break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful management to avoid over-oxidation. Techniques like single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site ratio control are being developed to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand with high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, are pivotal in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, particularly favoring the monoclinic phase and smaller sizes, enhances catalyst performance, increasing activity and selectivity to propene. Reductive treatment releases lattice oxygen, creating active Zr cations essential for propane activation, addressing deactivation challenges and improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal. Active site isolation boosts performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized via a two-step process, exhibits outstanding PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, resisting deactivation for 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, known for high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies aim to control the surface structure of these catalysts, particularly focusing on hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By tuning hydroxyl group coverage, stability and recyclability are enhanced, crucial for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the catalyst deactivation challenge effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites. These advancements promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts withstand high temperatures, maintaining activity for commercial PDH technologies. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements enhance stability and recyclability, addressing the need for sustainable solutions in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable solution, particularly through the innovation of V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3. These catalysts, noted for cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness, exhibit superior stability and recyclability. Bai et al. confirmed high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts maintained stability in PDH without gas-phase O2, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, due to VOX species' high stability. Rodemerck et al. also underscored VOX/MCM-41's catalytic superiority. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showed remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion and propene selectivity remaining high.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, coke formation significantly hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges posed by increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, cost-effective and reusable, are pivotal for industrial propylene production, addressing challenges in changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, forecasted to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), is a promising solution. Innovative catalyst design, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields effective CO2-assisted PDH catalysts. Redox cycles between Cr sites, like Cr(III)/Cr(II), boost propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 enhances propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have led to propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH addresses catalyst deactivation, a critical challenge, through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. However, specifics on these strategies are lacking, indicating a need for further research to fully leverage PDH's potential in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of alloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and promote redispersion of metal nanoparticles. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is crucial for developing effective strategies to maintain catalyst performance and recyclability in PDH processes. As highlighted by Xiong et al., singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, demonstrating the potential of isolated active sites. Moreover, the interaction between Pt and Cu can elevate the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitate propylene desorption, improving selectivity. The modification of supports, such as the addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2, can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also positively affect coke elimination and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH stands as a promising alternative. A critical gap in research exists regarding innovative catalyst design strategies to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. This highlights the need for further investigation into catalyst design to fully leverage PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges such as overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and traditional constraints. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for industrial needs and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet growing propylene demand, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, show that crystallization temperature affects catalytic performance by influencing surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly in V/SiO2 catalysts increases V5+ species interaction with silica, leading to high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' influence on surface VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts exhibit STYs less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, overcoming oil-based process limitations. Innovative, environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts address deactivation issues. Supported ZnOx species form through reductive treatment, with defective OH groups crucial for activity. This catalyst boasts triple the propene productivity at similar selectivity, highlighting its potential for enhanced stability and recyclability in industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements for dehydrogenation. However, they face challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of this approach depends on the membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, crucial for meeting industrial demand and adapting to changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a promising alternative. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for PDH processes at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This development addresses the need for a new PDH method that can operate at lower temperatures and reduce energy consumption, while the CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter, enhances stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being prevalent despite challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, governing oxidative dehydrogenation, underscores the role of oxygen vacancies in the catalytic cycle, guiding the development of catalysts that balance activity and selectivity. Advanced catalyst design, including single-atom catalysts and controlled oxygen sites, is explored to reduce byproducts and improve selectivity, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, notably using ZrO2-based catalysts, are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. These catalysts, known for their industrial relevance and cost-efficiency, exhibit high propene selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size enhances their activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is critical for creating active sites, improving catalyst performance in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as seen in spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1), significantly boosts performance. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability and high propene selectivity, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Supported vanadium oxides (VOx) on γ-Al2O3 emerge as effective PDH catalysts, with high activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, mitigate deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, a critical factor in deactivation, improving catalyst stability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. To combat catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are essential, focusing on stability and recyclability. These strategies include employing promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to resist coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and incorporating alloying elements are critical for enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability, ensuring the commercial viability of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining traction as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, is being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. Bai et al. showcased high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. and Rodemerck et al. reported stable PDH properties and superior catalytic performance for VOX/MCM-41 under oxidative regeneration, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, synthesized under specific conditions, exhibited remarkable long-term stability over eight cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% and propene selectivity remaining at approximately 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges due to coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum catalysts. Innovative strategies, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying catalyst supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address industrial demand for propylene by enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity, dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonne demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably CO2-assisted PDH, offers a promising alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalysts, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate high dispersion of chromium species, crucial for PDH efficiency. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-PDH, demonstrating the impact of acidity on selectivity and propene yield. The number of redox Cr sites correlates well with propene yield, up to 2wt % of Cr, showcasing the effectiveness of these catalysts in addressing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a propylene production method addresses the limitations of traditional techniques, particularly through innovative catalyst design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge, is tackled by understanding the active sites and dehydrogenation pathways on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Particle size impacts the fraction of active sites, with smaller particles increasing the number of under-coordinated atoms, which can lead to side reactions and deactivation. Electronic states of Pt ions influence propylene production selectivity, with Ptx+ ions excelling in propane conversion but not selective for propylene. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals show higher propylene selectivity by facilitating propylene desorption and increasing the barrier for deep dehydrogenation. Design strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, which exhibit a linear relationship between selectivity and activity, indicating that selectivity decreases with increased activity. Catalyst deactivation is primarily due to coke formation, which covers active sites and blocks reactant access. Strategies to inhibit deactivation involve modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and sintering of Pt nanoparticles. For instance, the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts improves propylene selectivity and reduces coke by elevating the energy barrier for CC bond breaking and facilitating C3H6 desorption. Alloying with promoters like Zn modulates surface electronic structure, enhancing C3H6 selectivity. Reducible metal oxides like TiO2 improve stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying Al2O3 supports with metal oxides reduces acidity and modulates Pt dispersion and electronic properties. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also reduce coke formation. Strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) and confinement effects provided by supports like CeO2 and mesoporous materials prevent sintering and enhance stability. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is effective for removing coke and reactivating catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, meeting evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, facing challenges with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates. Further research is needed to resolve these issues for viable industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts are pivotal in overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, addressing key challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, enhance stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    