Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as using mesoporous supports with high surface area and pure γ-Al2O3 phase synthesized through the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), influence the distribution of different surface V species. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) results in a high concentration of isolated V3+ species, crucial for catalytic activity. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, with propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction. The highest STY achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance, achieving a propene yield of 59.5% and stable selectivity of 90% over 6 h at 580 C, with a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit an initial propane conversion and propene selectivity of 18.1% and 91%, respectively, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, displays a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The role of other V species on the DDH reaction remains unclear, and further work could yield more active and stable DDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative to oil-based propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, offering an environmentally compatible solution to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and the creation of membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms, while the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalyst performance. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To overcome these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH processes, aiming to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts in microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This development addresses catalyst deactivation issues, enhances stability, and improves recyclability, aligning with the need for sustainable and energy-efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, operates at high temperatures but faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements aim to optimize performance, aligning with the increasing global demand for propylene and the evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal in meeting growing propylene demand, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the catalyst's adaptability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas deposits. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with isolated active sites enhancing performance. A novel catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits outstanding PDH activity, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing deactivation challenges and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and incorporating alloying elements are also critical for improving catalyst stability and recyclability, ensuring commercial viability of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, focusing on overcoming catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids, like VOX-SiO2, demonstrate enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH reactions. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reveal that V-based catalysts on γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirm the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41, linking VOX species to catalyst stability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts show remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining high propene selectivity and propane conversion rates, making V-based catalysts a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. While PDH is industrially viable, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge, undermining performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for enhanced stability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions, making them cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, and the limitations of traditional production methods have led to the prominence of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure, large pore size, and high thermal and acid stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation has proven effective for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with the number of redox Cr sites correlating with higher propene production. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity in AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 shows a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite, unlike over Cr-containing AlBeta.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to tackle deactivation issues, aiming to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to increase selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers have shown that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. The deactivation of catalysts is primarily due to coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to a rapid decrease in activity on smaller nanoparticles. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments, with a focus on inhibiting structure-sensitive side reactions and improving propylene selectivity. For instance, the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts can elevate the energy barrier for CC bond breaking and facilitate C3H6 desorption. The confinement situation provided by supports can also prevent sintering by offering a high surface area for dispersing active metals and exerting spatial constraints on metal clusters. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous regeneration may not fully restore catalytic performance due to structural transformation and eventual loss of activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation, a critical challenge, through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. Despite advancements, literature lacks specifics on these strategies, highlighting ongoing research efforts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They are particularly relevant due to the economic shift towards natural gas. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation, respectively. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus enhancing selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation poses a significant challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg addition for anti-coking capability, enhance stability and recyclability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, show high activity and stability. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 exhibit improved performance due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face limitations due to toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative method using ZnO-based catalysts addresses these challenges, offering higher propene productivity and environmental compatibility. Supported ZnOx species, formed through reductive treatment, play a critical role in the catalyst's activity. The ZnO-based catalyst outperforms commercial alternatives, demonstrating about three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements, but faces challenges with alkene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, or detrimental, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, innovative design strategies are being developed. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes, particularly in low-temperature methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed as a microwave catalyst for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically at high temperatures. Pt-based catalysts, while active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed. These include doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. Strategies also involve the use of single-atom catalysts, tuning acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen sites to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts. Computational methods support these developments by aiding in the understanding of C-H bond activation and screening potential catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity, making it a key process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, show industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for the creation of active sites upon reductive catalyst treatment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging the abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as per Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising catalysts for PDH, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface, it is possible to balance activity and stability, leading to enhanced recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process converting propane to propylene and hydrogen, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, are being developed to enhance selectivity, minimize coke formation, and improve stability and recyclability. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial for PDH's commercial success. Strategies to overcome deactivation include the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, which increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, focusing on overcoming catalyst deactivation through innovative design. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids, like VOX-SiO2, demonstrate enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH reactions. Optimized gelation and calcination temperatures improve catalyst performance, as evidenced by VOX-SiO2's superior catalytic activity and stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements in catalyst design strategies address deactivation issues, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying platinum with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, making the ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to meet this demand. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, thereby optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge, but innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of specific active site structures, understanding the influence of particle size on deactivation, and the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions are among the approaches to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. These advancements aim to optimize PDH processes for greater efficiency and sustainability in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation challenges through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. Despite PDH's promise, literature lacks detailed specifics on these strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional production methods. Despite advancements, current technologies face challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke deposition, which limits the activity recovery through regeneration. Innovative strategies are sought to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative, utilizing O2 and CO2 as oxidants. O2 prevents coke formation, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but poses the risk of overoxidation. CO2, while milder, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the process endothermic. The selection of a suitable catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, like solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues of catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg modification for anti-coking capability, enhance stability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), improves interaction between V5+ species and silica support. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through OH group reactions above 550C. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the new ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored, with the potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and the design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is being investigated. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. These strategies address the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Seeking to reduce energy consumption, researchers aim to develop PDH methods operable at lower temperatures. A novel approach utilizes non-precious CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability. This innovation opens a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spurred the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being favored for their high activity but suffering from poor selectivity, fast deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with promoters like late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies also involve the use of single-atom catalysts, modification of acid-base properties, and control of oxygen sites ratio to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods for better catalyst screening and understanding of C-H bond activation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging the abundant propane from shale-gas, address the growing demand for propylene, a vital commodity for various products. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, proven efficient, enhances PDH catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, demonstrating innovative design strategies to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups, help overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, leading to better catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Techniques include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackle catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, which exhibit superior stability and recyclability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, prepared at specific gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in PDH reactions, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. These catalysts, due to their high stability and recyclability, are promising for commercial PDH processes, addressing thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene has driven the adoption of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a key production method, offering a promising alternative to traditional routes. PDH's effectiveness in large-scale propylene production is acknowledged, but challenges remain, particularly in managing catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying platinum with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production in response to increasing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-assisted PDH, emerges as a critical alternative. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), significantly impact propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with SiBeta's low acidity favoring high propene selectivity, while AlBeta's high acidity promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, crucial for meeting demand and adapting to energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. The use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively impact coke elimination, as increasing hydrogen pressure leads to lower coverage of deeply dehydrogenated coke precursors on the surface. The confinement situation offered by supports can provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals and exert a spatial constraint on metal clusters to avoid sintering. Strategies like these are crucial for the continuous improvement of PDH catalysts and processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored using O2 and CO2 as oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving reaction efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to boost stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds producing active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a key alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have issues with toxicity and regeneration. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts are developed for environmental compatibility. ZnOx species form through reductive treatment, with defective OH groups playing a critical role. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the new ZnO catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are being developed. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, a novel approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at low temperatures. This method reduces energy consumption and opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, supported by carbon nitride phase, enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while highly active, face challenges including unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals like Ga and Sn, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism for oxidative dehydrogenation, which requires lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Advanced catalysts, including single-atom catalysts (SACs) and those with controlled oxygen sites, are being explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, showing relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Catalyst optimization through phase composition and crystallite size is crucial, with smaller sizes and the monoclinic phase enhancing activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, thus overcoming deactivation issues and improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key alternative, converting abundant propane into propene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, notably boosts catalytic performance. A case in point is the synthesis of spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1), achieved through a two-step process. This catalyst exhibits superior PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts, boasting high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group presence on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts can overcome deactivation issues, improving performance in nonoxidative PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Strategies include employing promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements are also critical for stability and recyclability, ensuring commercial viability of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In the context of growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH techniques, particularly those utilizing V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, demonstrate superior catalytic properties and stability. Studies show that optimizing gelation and calcination temperatures for VOX-SiO2 catalysts enhances activity and stability, crucial for industrial PDH applications. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports achieve high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a viable option for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation issues and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a leading alternative for large-scale propylene production. While PDH is already utilized in industry, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, remains a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying catalyst supports, adjusting platinum size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for more efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions, making them cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key alternative to traditional production methods. PDH, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), gains prominence due to the limitations of conventional techniques. Innovative catalysts, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high dispersion of chromium species, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites facilitates high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing both oxidative and nonoxidative challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address the issue of catalyst deactivation, which is a significant challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and recyclability of PDH catalysts by improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Key approaches include the use of alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create active sites, metal-hydride chemistry to control reaction pathways, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to stabilize nanoparticles. These advancements are crucial for improving the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, lacking the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer an alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a critical focus, improve PDH reaction selectivity and efficiency, addressing stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing key deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, Mg addition for anti-coking properties, and CADH for synthesizing high-surface-area Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs boosts V5+ interaction with silica, improving activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance, while Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst performance varies significantly, with the most active exhibiting STYs less than those of Pt catalysts. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation, affecting surface VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production. Cr and Pt catalysts in commercial PDH technologies have drawbacks, including Cr(VI) toxicity and ecologically harmful chlorine for regeneration. An innovative method uses commercial ZnO to create environmentally friendly supported catalysts. Supported ZnOx species form through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, with defective OH groups playing a key role. The ZnO-based catalyst outperforms a KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, showing three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. These strategies include the use of supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux at dehydrogenation temperatures, and the creation of membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, and long-term coking and cracking, consuming high energy under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for PDH processes at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach utilizes a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements aim to optimize PDH efficiency and meet the evolving global energy landscape's demands.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 increase activity and selectivity to propene. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, utilizing abundant propane. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A novel catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits superior PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding and controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies involve the use of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with optimized active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, including late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on supports like mesoporous silica solids, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. V-based catalysts, supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, exhibit attractive catalytic properties for PDH, with Bai et al. reporting high activity and stability on mesoporous γ-Al2O3. Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts stable for PDH without gas-phase O2, fully recoverable with oxidative regeneration, attributing this to VOX species' high stability. Rodemerck et al. also noted superior PDH properties in VOX/MCM-41, suggesting V-based catalysts' suitability for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts show remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing slowly from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remains at 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges, notably the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have been pivotal in understanding the deactivation mechanism and mapping the PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for increased propylene production and overcoming the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, enable the production of active ZnO clusters, enhancing performance. They are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are proving insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a promising alternative, especially as selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) gain significance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion has shown to produce excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. The acidity of the zeolite matrix, such as SiBeta for high selectivity and AlBeta for propane cracking, plays a critical role in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, offering enhanced propylene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, boosting stability, and facilitating recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing key challenges in the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). By improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles, these approaches significantly boost the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as evidenced by the work of researchers like Gong and coworkers, who demonstrated improved propylene selectivity and stability through the use of single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability. However, detailed methodologies remain underexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene by offering an alternative production route, especially relevant post-shale gas boom. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow continuous operation, deactivation issues persist, mainly due to coke deposition, hindering full activity recovery. Innovative catalyst design is crucial for stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may increase coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternatives but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal for effective oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxides, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, enhancing selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to boost stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, have shown that crystallization temperature influences catalytic performance by affecting the distribution of surface V species. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Innovative V/SiO2 catalyst preparation, like the direct co-assembly of vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), enhances V5+ species interaction with the silica support, leading to high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures also impact VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with the active V3+ species contributing to enhanced performance. Catalyst design must consider the nature of the support for optimal metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than the best Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Existing PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face limitations due to toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration processes. Innovations in catalyst design, such as the development of environmentally compatible ZnO-based catalysts, aim to overcome these challenges. The new catalysts, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, show about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, demonstrating a promising solution to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes are also under investigation, with potential for cogeneration. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being designed, considering electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have evolved. Challenges with Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, including cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, have prompted the search for innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. A key focus is the development of low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have developed a novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts as microwave catalysts for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This innovation opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, addressing the need for more efficient and sustainable propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on improving selectivity and reducing byproduct formation. The MVK mechanism, involving oxygen vacancies and their role in the catalytic cycle, is central to understanding oxidative PDH. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts by elucidating structure-reactivity relationships and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity and serve as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, making them environmentally friendly and cost-efficient solutions for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene by converting abundant propane from shale-gas deposits. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding and controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation issues by minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining long-term activity, are essential for commercial PDH. Promoters like late transition metals and optimal metal-support interactions enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to overcome catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, with mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts achieving high activity and stability. Studies on VOX/MCM-41 catalysts reveal that they maintain stability in PDH without gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion showing a gradual decrease from 55% to 45% over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, while propene selectivity remains at approximately 91%. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the severe impact of coke formation on the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH remains a critical challenge (Quote 3). Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), modifying supports, adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex reaction network of PDH. Despite progress, a systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts is still lacking, highlighting the need for further research (Quote 17). These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their improved catalytic activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, especially as selective processes gain importance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies involve understanding the role of active sites and deactivation mechanisms, optimizing particle size to balance active site availability and deactivation risk, and employing supports and promoters to inhibit coke formation and sintering. For instance, alloying with promoters like Cu can elevate energy barriers for side reactions and facilitate propylene desorption, while the addition of reducible oxides like TiO2 can improve stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying supports with alkaline promoters and introducing metal oxides can decrease acidity and modulate the dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, enhancing anti-coking capability. Adjusting reaction conditions, such as co-feeding H2 and CO2, can also reduce coke formation and maintain catalyst stability. These design strategies aim to prolong catalyst life and enhance the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to combat deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. However, detailed strategies remain underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate quickly due to coke deposition, lacking the stability of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show promise for selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative due to the favorable price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the core challenge of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification aids in anti-coking and boosts catalytic activity. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, increasing V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. However, Cr and Pt catalysts used in commercial PDH technologies have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method now prepares environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures. Defective OH groups play a key role in this process. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the new ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They aim to lower energy requirements and enhance efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are being developed. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, consuming high energy under conventional reaction modes. To address these issues, a novel approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face issues of unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Single-atom catalysts (SACs) and computational methods like DFT calculations are being explored to improve selectivity and activity, addressing catalyst deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand and traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using ZrO2-based catalysts, overcome deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalysts in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting growing propylene demand, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. A synthesized catalyst (CoOx@NC/S-1) exhibits high propane conversion to propene with no deactivation, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts, boasting high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process converting propane to propylene and hydrogen, tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to enhance selectivity and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. V-based catalysts, particularly VOX-SiO2, VOX/MCM-41, and those supported on Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties and stability. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibited stable properties for PDH in the absence of O2 and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrated remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles for PDH, with propane conversion decreasing slowly from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remained at about 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers platinum (Pt) catalyst performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for increased propylene production and overcoming traditional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions, making them cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to meet this demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion enhances catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a significant role. The acidity of zeolites impacts propene selectivity and formation rate, with SiBeta promoting high selectivity and AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Specific design details, however, remain unexplored in current literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation challenges, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the optimization of active sites, control of particle size to increase the number of active sites while managing the diversity of exposed atoms, and the manipulation of electronic states to influence selectivity and prevent side reactions. Understanding the role of valence states of Pt (Pt0 or Ptx+) and the impact of geometric models on the fraction of under-coordinated atoms is crucial. The design of catalytic systems with promoted performance involves the inhibition of deactivation, which can be achieved through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments. Strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, the application of a descriptor to represent selectivity, and the linear relationship between selectivity and activity. Deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, can be mitigated through the use of specific reaction ensembles, tuning support acidity, and optimizing reaction conditions. The development of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the confinement effect offered by supports can prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by hydrogen reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous generation may not fully restore catalytic performance. Further research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and develop effective strategies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, aiming to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods by offering an alternative production route, particularly relevant in the context of increased shale gas production. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes to be competitive, challenges remain in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides have been explored but lack the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems, deactivating too quickly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is being investigated to avoid thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, are being explored but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative designs are being explored, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which have shown improved selectivity and efficiency in PDH reactions, addressing stability and recyclability issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation poses a challenge. Progress in catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aims to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Cr and Pt catalysts, though used, have drawbacks like Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine-based regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, addresses these issues. This catalyst, when tested under industrial conditions, showed three times higher propene productivity than a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, increasing temperature boosts alkane conversion but reduces alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored, including proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face challenges with decreased propene selectivity at higher alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This catalyst design, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin acts as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, represents a significant advancement in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing issues like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To tackle these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers. These strategies aim to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Advanced catalysts, including single-atom catalysts (SACs) and those with controlled oxygen sites, are being explored to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve selectivity. Computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling support the development of these catalysts by elucidating structure-reactivity relationships and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal in meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene, offering high propene selectivity and serving as a major on-purpose production method. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas deposits, offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly enhances catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, with their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, are explored as promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies concentrate on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group presence on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts is crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, enhance stability and recyclability by minimizing coke formation and deactivation. Robust catalysts withstand high temperatures, maintaining activity. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides increase resistance to coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the superior catalytic properties and stability of V-based catalysts, especially VOX/MCM-41, in PDH reactions. These catalysts show full recovery with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species, making V-based catalysts a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit remarkable long-term stability in non-oxidative PDH, with propane conversion decreasing slowly from 55% to 45% over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, while propene selectivity remains at about 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring they remain competitive in the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions, making the ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are proving insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and related processes are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their unique structure and properties, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive effect of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to increase the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, minimize coke formation, and prevent the sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby boosting the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. [1] highlights the ambiguity in understanding the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH, while [35] and [60] discuss the importance of inhibiting deactivation through support modification and alloying, respectively. [50] and [55] exemplify the effectiveness of separating active metal components and using single-atom alloys to improve propylene selectivity and inhibit deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to combat deactivation, boost stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes, addressing key challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative techniques.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH to competitive levels, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, with limited regeneration effectiveness. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative, using O2 or CO2 as oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, though milder, results in less heat formation and may increase coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the core challenge of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Existing Cr and Pt catalysts have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, addresses these issues. This catalyst, with a role for defective OH groups, shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, making it a promising solution for industrial demand and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements but face challenges with temperature and selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high surface area and oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spurred the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. However, conventional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these issues, researchers are exploring innovative catalyst design strategies for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach uses a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This development aims to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges including unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to address the MVK mechanism, where reactants with reducing properties interact with oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, and to control the ratio of oxygen sites on the catalyst surface for balanced activity and selectivity. The use of single-atom catalysts, modification of acid-base properties, and tuning of oxygen activity are explored to reduce byproducts and improve selectivity. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts by understanding the effects of geometrical and electronic structures on C-H bond activation and screening potential catalyst candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional propylene production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, overcome deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is crucial for creating active sites, enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, enhance stability by suppressing coke deposition, thus improving recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are pivotal, focusing on stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies involve using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to resist coking. Additionally, optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and employing alloying elements enhance catalyst robustness and longevity, crucial for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through addressing catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, such as utilizing V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, prepared at specific gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, with the ability to maintain high propene selectivity and propane conversion over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles. These advancements in catalyst design overcome thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reduce carbon deposition, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its success, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders platinum (Pt) catalyst performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues and enhance stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework are identified as active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially in the presence of CO2 (CO2-PDH), emerges as a promising technique. Innovative catalysts, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high dispersion of chromium species, crucial for CO2-PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity of AlBeta favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design to boost stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation challenges, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Particle size and electronic states significantly influence the fraction of active sites and the potential for side reactions, affecting catalyst deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to design more stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues persist, requiring innovative design strategies for stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 and CO2, as oxidants, have distinct advantages: O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperature, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity; CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, thus boosting reaction efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative due to the favorable price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the catalyst deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, Mg modification for anti-coking capability, and the use of supports like Al2O3, SiO2, ZrO2, and Si-beta, enhance stability and recyclability. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 with high surface area improves VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance, influenced by crystallization temperature and Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, boosting stability. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, reducing coke deposits. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Catalyst design considers support nature for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face issues due to toxicity or ecologically harmful regeneration processes. An innovative method now prepares environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in this formation. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the new ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but faces challenges with alkene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. However, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been introduced for the first time, offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically at 600 C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with catalyst surface oxygen, creating vacancies that are refilled by O2 or CO2, forming a catalytic cycle. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, releasing heat. However, this requires lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Research focuses on catalyst design to address deactivation, improve stability, and enhance recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key process for propene production, offering high selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, crucial for creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This optimization is pivotal for PDH performance, as it enables the release of lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, facilitating propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene by converting abundant propane from shale-gas deposits. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thus enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH converts propane to propylene and hydrogen, addressing challenges through innovative catalyst design. Key strategies include using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Designing catalysts with optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements enhances stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's commercial success. These advancements tackle deactivation issues, ensuring catalyst robustness at high temperatures and prolonged activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, particularly those employing V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address catalyst deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures reveal superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. This highlights the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its success, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework are proposed as active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. Supported ZnO catalysts on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), emerges as a critical solution. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes. These strategies involve understanding the role of active sites and deactivation mechanisms, optimizing particle size for increased active sites while managing the diverse local environments of exposed atoms. The challenge lies in balancing the formation of undesired products, which can lead to catalyst deactivation, with the need for high propylene selectivity. Design strategies include the manipulation of geometric and electronic states of catalysts to influence propylene adsorption and side reactions, the use of supports and promoters to modulate acidity and electron transfer, and the adjustment of reaction conditions to reduce coke formation. These approaches aim to improve catalyst performance by inhibiting deactivation, promoting selectivity, and enhancing stability through controlled geometric and electronic effects.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation, a critical challenge, through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. Despite PDH's promise, literature lacks detailed insights into these strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but deactivate quickly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 and CO2 are leading oxidizing agents, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperature but introducing overoxidation risks, and CO2 consuming H2 but resulting in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes, demonstrating improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), exhibit high activity and stability due to the direct co-assembly process. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 properties and performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, are approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies significantly, with the most active ones being less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. However, Cr and Pt catalysts have limitations due to toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally compatible solution. This catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, as evidenced in industrial conditions testing.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, challenges arise due to decreased alkene selectivity with temperature increases. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms are being investigated for NiOx-based ODH catalysts. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, a new PDH method at lower temperatures is sought to reduce energy use. A novel approach uses non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts in microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opening a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, addresses the need for stable and recyclable catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing issues like poor propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and stability problems due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, crucial for meeting increasing demand and adapting to changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity, utilizing innovative catalyst design strategies to overcome deactivation issues. ZrO2-based catalysts, known for industrial relevance and cost-efficiency, show enhanced activity and selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size is key, with smaller sizes and the monoclinic phase demonstrating superior performance to tetragonal ZrO2. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites crucial for propane activation, tuning the catalyst's activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, thereby enhancing catalyst performance and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies incorporate promoters such as late transition metals, main-group metals like Sn and Ga, and metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements are also crucial for improving catalyst stability and recyclability, ensuring commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackle catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts reveal optimized performance and stability, crucial for industrial application. V-based catalysts, cost-effective and eco-friendly, show superior catalytic properties for PDH when supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieve high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit stable PDH properties in the absence of O2 and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles for PDH, with propane conversion showing a gradual decrease from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remains at 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. While PDH is already in industrial use, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, remains a significant challenge. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation, alloying platinum with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of the platinum catalyst to influence reactivity, and exploring single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to improve catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with the increasing demand for propylene and the need for more efficient production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by directly converting propane, avoiding steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions. The resulting ZnO catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH processes, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites boosting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles production challenges, particularly through evolving catalyst design strategies aimed at overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), which aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. For instance, the use of Pt-based catalysts with specific geometric and electronic structures can significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, while the addition of promoters like Cu can elevate energy barriers for unwanted reactions and facilitate propylene desorption. Moreover, modifying supports with metal oxides or using nanocarbons can decrease acidity, modulate dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, and provide spatial constraints to avoid sintering. These approaches collectively enhance the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes, though specific strategies remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They are particularly relevant due to the economic shift towards natural gas as a feedstock. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes to competitive levels, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation and coke deposition, hindering full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative. O2 and CO2 are key oxidizing agents, with O2 eliminating coke deposition but introducing overoxidation challenges, and CO2 consuming H2 but resulting in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative. The price disparity between propane and propylene underpins PDH's value. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing catalysts like VOx/Al2O3 synthesized via CADH, which enhances performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, including V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows enhanced performance from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Existing Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and environmental concerns. A novel ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, shows three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, proving a viable, eco-friendly solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements but faces challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation offer cogeneration potential. However, VOx catalysts struggle with decreased propene selectivity at higher conversions, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under CRM. To tackle these challenges, a novel low-temperature PDH method is sought to reduce energy use. Researchers have developed a new approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, opening a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovative catalyst design strategy, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, addresses deactivation issues and improves recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers. These strategies aim to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The oxidative dehydrogenation of propane follows the MVK mechanism, where reactants with reducing properties interact with the catalyst's surface oxygen, creating oxygen vacancies. The reaction's thermodynamic limitations are addressed by adding an oxidant, but this requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. The nature of the reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts remains complex, with side reactions needing consideration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key process, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is critical for creating active sites, crucial for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal. The active site isolation strategy, as per Quote [3], enhances PDH performance. A catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation, as evidenced in Quote [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, leading to enhanced recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity over extended periods, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides, increase resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and using alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, particularly those utilizing V-based catalysts, address catalyst deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial PDH applications. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids, like γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. The optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts show remarkable long-term stability in PDH reactions, maintaining high propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the increasing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet increasing industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework are active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are proving insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, with processes like oxidative dehydrogenation gaining significance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a key role in propene yield. The acidity of the zeolite matrix, whether SiBeta or AlBeta, significantly impacts catalytic properties and selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specifics remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts with optimized active sites and dehydrogenation pathways. Particle size is crucial, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. Deactivation often results from side reactions like deep dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, leading to the formation of undesired products. Innovative design strategies focus on modifying the geometric and electronic properties of catalysts to inhibit deactivation, such as by controlling the coordination structure and electronic states of Pt atoms. The use of bimetallic compounds and supports like CeO2 and TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by inhibiting coke formation and sintering. Additionally, adjusting reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst performance. These strategies are crucial for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, though specific strategies remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, current technologies need improvement in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate quickly due to coke deposition, lacking full regeneration capability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, avoiding thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, thereby optimizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking processes, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    