Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability. Strategies include synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 supports with high surface area through the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), which influences the distribution of surface V species. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) results in a high concentration of isolated V3+ species, crucial for catalytic activity. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, with propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction. The highest STY achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance, achieving a propene yield of 59.5% and stable selectivity of 90% over 6 h at 580 C, with a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit an initial propane conversion and propene selectivity of 18.1% and 91%, respectively, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, displays a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing environmental concerns and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies focus on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, and NiOx-based ODH catalysts for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, while the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalyst performance. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are advancing. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH processes to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts in microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This development addresses catalyst deactivation issues, enhances stability, and improves recyclability, aligning with the need for sustainable and energy-efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, operates at high temperatures but faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements aim to optimize performance, aligning with the increasing global demand for propylene and the evolving energy landscape. The nature of reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts in PDH and ODH systems remains complex, with side reactions needing consideration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting growing propylene demand, offering high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, enhance activity and selectivity. The monoclinic phase and ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment create active sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating adaptability in PDH processes to tackle deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas deposits. Cobalt-based catalysts, particularly those with isolated active sites, are pivotal in PDH, offering enhanced performance. A novel catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits outstanding PDH activity, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with their high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of these catalysts, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative strategies focus on using promoters like late transition metals and optimizing metal-support interactions to enhance stability and recyclability, ensuring PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, particularly through the use of V-based catalysts. VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41 catalysts demonstrate enhanced stability and recyclability, with studies by Bai et al., Sokolov et al., and Rodemerck et al. confirming their high activity and stability. VOX/MCM-41 exhibits full recovery after oxidative regeneration, and optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintain high propene selectivity and propane conversion rates over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, making V-based catalysts a promising option for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, catalyst deactivation due to coke formation poses a significant challenge, affecting performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism, underscoring the need for a systematic review on coke formation and catalyst regeneration. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for enhanced stability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve activity, reduce side reactions, and are cost-effective and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a key solution, addressing the limitations of traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation has proven effective for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. The number of redox Cr sites correlates with higher propene production, demonstrating the importance of high chromium dispersion. Low acidity in SiBeta promotes high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 shows a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, aiming to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to increase selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers have shown that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. The deactivation of catalysts is primarily due to coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to a rapid decrease in activity on smaller nanoparticles. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments, with a focus on inhibiting structure-sensitive side reactions and improving propylene selectivity. For instance, the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts can elevate the energy barrier for CC bond breaking and facilitate C3H6 desorption. The confinement situation provided by supports can also prevent sintering by offering a high surface area for dispersing active metals and exerting spatial constraints on metal clusters. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous regeneration may not fully restore catalytic performance due to structural transformation and eventual loss of activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles the critical challenge of catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. Ongoing research efforts continue to refine these strategies, highlighting their importance in addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts are advanced, alternative metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) suffer from rapid deactivation and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternatives, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability. A comprehensive comparison of catalysts is desirable to reveal qualitative differences and guide further research.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a promising alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg addition for anti-coking capability, enhance stability and recyclability. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts shows high activity and stability. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 exhibit improved performance due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation, affecting the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts, while less active than Pt catalysts, demonstrate significant advancements in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing limitations of toxic Cr and regeneration-requiring Pt catalysts. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, environmentally compatible and formed through reductive treatment, demonstrates about three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, as shown in benchmarking tests against commercial alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They lower energy requirements but face challenges with alkene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, like supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies are addressing the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, or detrimental and prone to coking and cracking. A focus is on developing methods that reduce energy consumption, particularly at low temperatures. The CoSn/NC catalyst, a novel microwave catalyst for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offers a new route for utilizing abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at high temperatures, faces challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including doping with late transition metals and main-group elements, modifying carriers, and utilizing single-atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability, improve selectivity, and reduce byproducts. The MVK mechanism, crucial for understanding the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, highlights the importance of temperature control for higher selectivity. Computational methods aid in understanding C-H bond activation and screening potential catalysts, supporting the evolution of PDH techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, are crucial for on-purpose propene production, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand. Innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for active site creation upon reductive catalyst treatment, making these catalysts industrially relevant for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1, show promise with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as per Quote 5, highlighting their effectiveness in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, known for high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the catalyst's surface structure, particularly hydroxyl groups, to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining traction as a viable alternative. PDH, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen, encounters catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are being developed to enhance selectivity, minimize coke formation, and improve stability and recyclability. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Strategies to overcome deactivation include optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements to boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques offer an alternative, focusing on overcoming catalyst deactivation through innovative design. VOX-SiO2, a V-based catalyst supported on mesoporous silica solids, demonstrates enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH reactions. Optimized gelation and calcination temperatures improve catalyst performance, as evidenced by VOX-SiO2's superior catalytic activity and stability in multiple reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements address deactivation issues, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production. PDH, already in use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which hinders performance. Innovative strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying platinum with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single atom catalysts for new mechanisms. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites effectively disperse Zn species, minimizing side reactions, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods struggle, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion, enhancing catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, where redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing the catalyst deactivation challenges and aligning with the increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, optimizing PDH processes for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Innovative design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These approaches aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, optimizing PDH processes for greater efficiency and sustainability. Understanding the influence of particle size on deactivation and the effectiveness of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Alloying can elevate energy barriers for side reactions and facilitate propylene desorption. Single atom catalysts, like Pt/Cu alloys, can break scaling relationships and improve propylene selectivity. Strong metal-support interactions, such as those with CeO2, can trap Pt atoms in an ionic form, enhancing stability even at high temperatures. These advancements are critical for the evolution of PDH processes in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH addresses catalyst deactivation challenges through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. However, the literature lacks detailed specifics on these strategies, highlighting the need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are vital for meeting the rising demand for propylene, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke deposition, hinders activity recovery through regeneration, necessitating innovative design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2 as oxidants, lacks thermodynamic limitations, with O2 preventing coke formation and lowering reaction temperatures, albeit with the risk of overoxidation. CO2, while milder, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the process endothermic. Selecting a suitable catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues of catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, responding to industrial demand and traditional method limitations, offer a viable alternative for propylene production. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining traction due to the favorable economics of converting propane to propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on innovative catalyst design strategies, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, to improve stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing catalyst design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability, enhancing catalytic performance. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, increasing Lewis acid sites for better catalytic activity. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, strengthens V5+ species interaction with silica support. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts, using Cr or Pt, face toxicity and ecological concerns. An innovative method introduces environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through OH group reactions. These catalysts outperform commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions while maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and the design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is being investigated. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. These strategies address the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues. Seeking energy efficiency, researchers aim for low-temperature PDH methods. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts favored for their high activity but challenged by poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, or lattice oxygen mechanism, is pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with the catalyst's surface oxygen, leading to oxygen vacancies and a catalytic cycle. However, the reaction products are prone to over-oxidation, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Understanding and controlling the reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts, including side reactions, is essential for improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, overcome deactivation issues. Monoclinic ZrO2 with smaller crystallite sizes outperforms tetragonal ZrO2, enhancing activity and selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address the rising demand for propylene, crucial for various products. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates exceptional PDH performance: 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative design strategies to overcome deactivation and enhance stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly using supported vanadium oxides, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, including the presence of surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, significantly enhance stability by suppressing coke deposition, thereby improving catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including robust catalysts and the use of additional promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These advancements are critical for commercial PDH technologies, ensuring they can withstand high temperatures and maintain activity, while minimizing coke formation and maximizing selective dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly those employing V-based catalysts on SiO2, offer a viable alternative. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit superior stability and recyclability, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. These advancements address catalyst deactivation challenges, making PDH processes promising for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene has propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a key production method, offering a promising alternative to traditional routes. PDH is recognized for its effectiveness in large-scale propylene production, but catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a significant challenge, undermining performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation, alloying platinum with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, and adjusting catalyst size to influence reactivity. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production amidst growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods struggle, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially CO2-assisted PDH, as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), significantly impact propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with SiBeta's low acidity favoring high propene selectivity, while AlBeta's high acidity promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, and the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2, which can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively impact coke elimination, as increasing hydrogen pressure leads to lower coverage of deeply dehydrogenated coke precursors on the surface. The confinement situation offered by supports can provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals and exert a spatial constraint on metal clusters to avoid sintering. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. Strategies like these are crucial for the continuous improvement of PDH catalysts and processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production alternative, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability, aligning with global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, requiring further research (Quote 1-3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, uses O2 and CO2 as oxidants; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation (Quote 5-9), while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation (Quote 10-11). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability (Quote 16-20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving reaction efficiency and selectivity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, aim to boost stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternatives to traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds producing active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative for propylene production, addressing oil-based cracking limitations. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration challenges. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts are developed for environmental compatibility, with ZnOx species forming through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a critical role in this process. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the new ZnO catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, effectively addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements and improving efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are addressing catalyst deactivation challenges. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. A novel approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at low temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. The CoSn/NC catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, supported by carbon nitride phase, enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C, faces challenges such as unsatisfactory selectivity and deactivation due to coke formation. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation, requires lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Advanced catalysts, like single-atom catalysts and those with controlled oxygen sites, are being explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation, addressing the thermodynamic limitations of PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing ZrO2-based catalysts, offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene. Catalyst optimization through phase composition and crystallite size, favoring the monoclinic phase and smaller sizes, enhances activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, overcoming deactivation issues and improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a key alternative for propene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy notably boosts catalytic performance, as demonstrated by the synthesis of spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1). This catalyst exhibits superior PDH performance, achieving significant propane conversion and high propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after extended reaction time at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, particularly VOx/γ-Al2O3, show promise due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence, effectively suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Strategies include using promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements are critical for stability and recyclability, ensuring the commercial viability of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly those employing V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, offer superior catalytic properties and stability. Optimizing gelation and calcination temperatures for VOX-SiO2 catalysts boosts activity and stability, crucial for PDH applications. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts demonstrate full recovery post-oxidative regeneration, highlighting their stability and recyclability, making V-based catalysts a viable solution for commercial PDH processes, tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a leading alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH is already in industrial use, but catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying catalyst supports, adjusting platinum size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism, providing insights into the nature of coke and its impact on reactivity and stability in PDH processes. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing the need for more efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite-supported ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve activity and reduce side reactions, making them cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. PDH, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), addresses the limitations of traditional techniques. Innovative catalysts, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial in tackling deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate high dispersion of chromium species, essential for high catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH tackles catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as summarized: 'Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing both oxidative and nonoxidative challenges.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. A major challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which hinders efficiency and sustainability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, which show a linear relationship between activity and selectivity, indicating that selectivity decreases as activity increases. The modification of supports, metals, and treatments is crucial for inhibiting deactivation. For instance, the addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 improves catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. Alumina, a conventional support, can be modified with alkaline promoters to decrease acidity and curb support acidity. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also positively impact coke elimination. The addition of H2 reduces the coverage of deeply dehydrogenated coke precursors, while CO2 acts as a soft oxidant to reduce coke formation. Strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) can prevent sintering of metal particles, and confinement situations provided by supports can prevent agglomeration of Pt nanoparticles. These strategies are essential for improving the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability, though literature lacks specific details on these strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation and coke deposition issues, lacking the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key focus, enhance PDH reaction selectivity and efficiency, addressing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg addition to VOx/Al2O3 boosts anti-coking properties, improving catalytic performance. CADH synthesizes high-surface-area Al2O3, affecting catalytic activity. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs strengthens V5+ interaction with silica, boosting activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance, while Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst performance varies, with the most active exhibiting STYs less than those of Pt catalysts. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation, affecting surface VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have issues like Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine-based regeneration. An innovative method uses commercial ZnO to create eco-friendly supported catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reactions with OH groups at high temperatures. The ZnO-based catalyst outperforms conventional KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, as evidenced by testing over 400 hours.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry, with high oxygen flux and surface area being critical. The nature of the VOx phase is crucial for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. These strategies enhance stability and recyclability, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, consuming high energy. To address these challenges, a novel approach under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) is being developed, utilizing a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, aiming to reduce energy consumption and open a new route for efficient propane utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, operates at 600°C using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while active, struggle with poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies, is crucial in oxidative PDH. Adding an oxidant breaks thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to avoid over-oxidation. These advancements optimize PDH efficiency, meeting global energy demands.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, by releasing lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, create active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, effectively addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH using abundant propane is a viable alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, effective and abundant, are key in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A novel CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized in two steps, exhibits superior PDH performance and stability, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxides, due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, thus enhancing performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, optimize active sites for selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial for commercial PDH. Promoters like late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides enhance coking resistance, while optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly V-based catalysts on supports like mesoporous silica solids, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial PDH. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 stable for PDH without gas-phase O2, fully recoverable with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. noted VOX/MCM-41's superior PDH properties, suggesting V-based catalysts' suitability for commercial processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts show long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remains at 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH encounters challenges, particularly the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for increased propylene production and overcoming the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, such as utilizing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, enable the production of active ZnO clusters, improving performance. They are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, are gaining prominence as selective methods for propylene synthesis. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion produces effective catalysts, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. The acidity of the zeolite matrix, such as SiBeta for high selectivity and AlBeta for propane cracking, plays a critical role in catalytic properties, influencing propene formation rates in switch operation modes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers enhanced production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design for stability and recyclability in changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). By improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles, these approaches significantly boost the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as evidenced by the work of researchers like Gong and coworkers, who demonstrated improved propylene selectivity and stability through the use of single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. This addresses key challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, although detailed methodologies remain underexplored.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing industrial demand. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts, while enabling continuous operation, face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, limiting activity recovery. Innovative catalyst design is essential for stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may increase coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal for effective oxidative dehydrogenation, as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternatives but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity, issues needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address propylene demand, tackling catalyst deactivation with supported vanadium oxides, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH, especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, focusing on catalyst design to overcome deactivation. Crystallization temperature affects catalytic performance by altering surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg improves anti-coking capability. Innovative V/SiO2 catalyst preparation, like direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs, boosts activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 catalyst performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with V3+ species contributing to enhanced performance. Catalyst design must consider support nature for optimal metal-support interactions. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than the best Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, crucial for meeting industrial demand and environmental standards. Traditional PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts are hindered by toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration processes. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, developed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, offer a solution. These catalysts demonstrate about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes are also under investigation, with potential for cogeneration. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being designed, considering electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have advanced, focusing on overcoming issues with Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, which are expensive, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts as microwave catalysts under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed, addressing the need for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. This innovation opens a new path for efficient and sustainable propylene production from abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges like poor selectivity and deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Pt-based catalysts, while active, require innovation to enhance stability and recyclability. Strategies include doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation. The MVK mechanism, involving oxygen vacancies, is crucial for oxidative PDH, guiding the development of more efficient catalysts through computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a key process for propene production, offering high selectivity. Catalyst deactivation challenges are addressed through innovative design strategies, notably the use of ZrO2-based catalysts. These catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, providing a cost-efficient and environmentally friendly solution for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal for PDH, as highlighted in quote [2]. An innovative active site isolation strategy, mentioned in quote [3], boosts catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized as described in quote [4], exhibits outstanding PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as evidenced in quote [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, particularly with vanadium oxide catalysts. These catalysts, noted for their activity and selectivity, are being optimized through innovative design strategies. A focus on controlling surface structure, especially the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, suppresses coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, minimizes coke formation, a key deactivation issue. Robust catalysts, with high-temperature stability and long-term activity, are pivotal for commercial PDH. Design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, addressing the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, with mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts achieving high activity and stability. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts maintain stability in PDH without gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion showing a gradual decrease from 55% to 45% over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, while propene selectivity remains at approximately 91%. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through enhanced stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale production (Quote 2). However, coke formation significantly undermines the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), modifying supports, adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex reaction network of PDH. Despite progress, a systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts is still lacking, highlighting the need for further research (Quote 17). These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts minimize side reactions, making them ideal for propylene production in changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the need for alternatives. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable solution, particularly as selective processes gain prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, which is crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. The acidity of the zeolite substrate plays a critical role, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieving high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively meeting the challenges of increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies involve understanding the role of active sites and deactivation mechanisms, optimizing particle size to balance active site availability and deactivation risk, and employing supports and promoters to inhibit coke formation and sintering. For instance, alloying with promoters like Cu can elevate energy barriers for side reactions and facilitate propylene desorption, while the addition of reducible oxides like TiO2 can improve stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying supports with alkaline promoters and introducing metal oxides can decrease acidity and modulate the dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, enhancing anti-coking capability. Adjusting reaction conditions, such as co-feeding H2 and CO2, can also reduce coke formation and maintain catalyst stability. These design strategies aim to prolong catalyst life and enhance the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for combating deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Further exploration of these strategies is needed to fully leverage PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, unlike stable PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic constraints but introduces overoxidation and heat management challenges. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and must address toxicity for industrial use. Further research is needed to optimize catalysts and reaction systems for viable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving efficiency and selectivity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, offers a viable alternative due to the favorable propane-to-propylene price differential. Despite its commercial use, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, tackling the core issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer alternatives for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Catalyst design strategies, like P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification aids in anti-coking and boosts catalytic activity. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, increasing V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital oil-cracking alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Cr and Pt catalysts, while used, have issues like toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method now prepares eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through a reaction with support OH groups. Defective OH groups are crucial for this process. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the new ZnO-based catalyst shows three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, maintaining similar propene selectivity, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements and enhancing efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging. Existing PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and susceptible to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. A novel approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been devised for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, effectively reducing energy consumption and offering a new pathway for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face issues of unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, is crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. However, this process requires lower temperatures for higher selectivity and faces challenges with side reactions. Efforts are being made to improve selectivity and activity, addressing catalyst deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand and production limitations. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, overcome deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity, outperforming alternatives. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating its effectiveness in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, are pivotal for meeting escalating propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably earth-abundant and efficient, are optimized via active site isolation, significantly boosting PDH performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates high propane conversion to propene without deactivation, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies, focusing on controlling surface structure and the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, enhance selectivity and minimize coke formation, tackling deactivation issues. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are crucial for PDH's success. Strategies involve using promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides to boost resistance against coking, optimizing metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size and shape for improved stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative design strategies for V-based catalysts, such as VOX-SiO2, VOX/MCM-41, and those on Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 showed high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts were stable in non-oxidative PDH and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrated long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remained at about 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably coke formation, which hampers Pt catalyst performance. Innovative strategies to mitigate these issues include adding reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for increased propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, boost catalytic activity, minimize side reactions, and are cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a key role. Zeolite acidity impacts propene selectivity, with SiBeta promoting high selectivity and AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, as demonstrated by comparative studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation challenges, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include optimizing active sites, controlling particle size to increase the number of active sites while managing the diversity of exposed atoms, and manipulating electronic states to influence selectivity and prevent side reactions. Understanding the role of valence states of Pt (Pt0 or Ptx+) and the impact of geometric models on the fraction of under-coordinated atoms is crucial. The design of catalytic systems with promoted performance involves the inhibition of deactivation, which can be achieved through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments. Strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, the application of a descriptor to represent selectivity, and the linear relationship between selectivity and activity. Deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, can be mitigated through the use of specific reaction ensembles, tuning support acidity, and optimizing reaction conditions. The development of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the confinement effect offered by supports can prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by hydrogen reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous generation may not fully restore catalytic performance. Further research is needed to understand deactivation mechanisms and develop effective strategies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential, targeting deactivation issues to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and growing industrial demand. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, but challenges remain in noble metal loading, stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts, notably metal oxides, deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, lacking the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems. Innovative strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 is being explored to avoid thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperature but risking overoxidation, and CO2 consuming H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but resulting in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective oxidative dehydrogenation of paraffins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a key innovation, demonstrate enhanced selectivity and efficiency, addressing deactivation issues and improving stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH emerges as a viable alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, boosting VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have issues like Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine-based regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, addresses these, showing three times higher propene productivity than a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, increasing temperature boosts alkane conversion but reduces alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored, including proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face challenges with decreased propene selectivity at higher alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have gained prominence. Conventional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and susceptible to coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these issues, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), operating at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. This innovative catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as a support, offers a sustainable route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, primarily uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, or lattice oxygen mechanism, is followed in oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with highly reactive oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface, leading to oxygen vacancies and a catalytic cycle. Advanced catalysts, including single-atom catalysts (SACs) and those with controlled oxygen sites, are being explored to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering high propene selectivity. To combat catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies utilize ZrO2-based catalysts, which are eco-friendly and cost-effective. Optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts can create active sites for propane activation, with the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 showing superior activity and selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, is a promising propylene production method, addressing traditional limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and effective, are pivotal for PDH. The active site isolation strategy significantly boosts catalytic performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, with isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group presence on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts is critical for overcoming deactivation issues and improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation by minimizing coke formation. Promoters, including late transition metals and rare-earth oxides, enhance resistance to coking. Controlled particle size and optimal metal-support interactions improve stability and recyclability, ensuring robust catalysts withstand high temperatures and maintain activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirm the superior catalytic properties and stability of V-based catalysts, notably VOX/MCM-41, in PDH reactions. These catalysts demonstrate full recovery with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species, making them a promising choice for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit significant long-term stability in non-oxidative PDH, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at about 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the shortcomings of traditional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising method for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH encounters challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which compromises performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to tackle these issues, including the introduction of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring their competitiveness in the changing global energy landscape. Understanding the nature and origin of coke on Pt catalysts is crucial for improving PDH efficiency, as it significantly affects reactivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, converting propane directly without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species, minimizing side reactions, and making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and its oxidative variants are emerging as key solutions. Innovative catalysts, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for addressing deactivation issues and improving stability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with shifting energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to increase the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, minimize coke formation, and prevent the sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby boosting the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. The ambiguity in understanding the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH highlights the need for further research. Inhibiting deactivation through support modification and alloying is crucial. Separating active metal components and using single-atom alloys can improve propylene selectivity and inhibit deep dehydrogenation, as demonstrated in studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, directly addressing key challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH to competitive levels, but challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, with limited regeneration effectiveness. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative, using O2 or CO2 as oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, though milder, results in less heat formation and may increase coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, offers a cost-effective solution, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally-induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the critical issue of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer alternatives for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Catalyst design strategies, including CADH for mesoporous Al2O3 synthesis, boost VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Existing Cr and Pt catalysts have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration processes. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, making it a promising solution. This addresses catalyst deactivation challenges through a method that utilizes defective OH groups for the formation of active ZnOx species, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements but face challenges with temperature and selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high surface area and oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Seeking to address these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalysts for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy use. A groundbreaking approach utilizes a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation targets deactivation challenges, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including doping with metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies address the MVK mechanism, where reactants interact with oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface, and aim to control the ratio of oxygen sites for balanced activity and selectivity. The use of single-atom catalysts, modification of acid-base properties, and tuning of oxygen activity are explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, focusing on optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, enhances stability and recyclability. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes of ZrO2 show increased activity and selectivity to propene. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is vital for creating active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand and overcome production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and efficient, are optimized via active site isolation, boosting PDH performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, with their high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability, particularly in nonoxidative PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative design strategies, including novel promoters and optimized metal-support interactions, tackle catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements are crucial for commercial PDH technologies, aligning with evolving industrial needs and global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, prepared under specific conditions, exhibit superior catalytic activity and stability, maintaining high propene selectivity and propane conversion over multiple cycles. These advancements overcome thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reduce carbon deposition, making PDH a promising method for propylene production in the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impacts platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the use of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These approaches aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative by directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues and enhances stability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions. Active ZnO clusters, connected with the zeolite framework, are produced under precise conditions, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably CO2-PDH, is gaining prominence as an alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalysts, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate high dispersion of chromium species, essential for CO2-PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts, as evidenced by the correlation between redox Cr sites and propene yield. The acidity of the zeolite substrate, such as SiBeta or AlBeta, significantly influences catalytic properties; low acidity promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Due to rising demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a solution, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation challenges, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Particle size and electronic states significantly influence the fraction of active sites and the potential for side reactions, affecting catalyst deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to design more stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling traditional limitations and rising demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Catalysts like PtSn and CrOx face deactivation issues, necessitating innovative design for enhanced stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, is promising. O2, as an oxidant, eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperature, but risks overoxidation affecting olefin selectivity. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "In response to rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosts stability and recyclability, enhancing reaction efficiency and selectivity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and oil-based cracking limitations, nonoxidative PDH emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent innovations focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, Mg modification for anti-coking capability, and the use of supports like Al2O3, SiO2, ZrO2, and Si-beta, enhance stability and recyclability. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 with high surface area improves VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance, influenced by crystallization temperature and Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, boosting stability. Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, reducing coke deposits. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Catalyst design considers support nature for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological concerns. An innovative method now prepares environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment, with defective OH groups playing a key role. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the new ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements for dehydrogenation. However, challenges remain with alkene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional PDH methods, innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial. Existing Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Aiming to reduce energy use, researchers are exploring low-temperature PDH techniques. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, functioning under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), is introduced for the first time, offering a promising solution for efficient propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability. Innovative strategies, like promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, involving reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to create and refill vacancies, forming a catalytic cycle. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, added oxidants react with hydrogen, releasing heat, requiring lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Research focuses on catalyst design to address deactivation and improve stability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH stands out as a viable propene production process, offering high selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, focusing on optimized phase composition and crystallite size, tackles deactivation by enhancing activity and selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 outperform tetragonal ZrO2, enabling lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment, crucial for propane activation and PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, noted for their abundance and effectiveness, are pivotal in PDH processes. The active site isolation strategy significantly boosts catalytic performance. A CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation over 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has surfaced as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, noted for their activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies aim to control the surface structure of these catalysts, particularly by leveraging surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, a leading cause of deactivation. This enhancement boosts stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH, addressing catalyst challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides as promoters, optimize metal-support interactions and control particle size to enhance stability and recyclability. These advancements address deactivation issues, ensuring robust catalyst performance at high temperatures and prolonged activity, crucial for PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, notably those using V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are emerging as a viable alternative. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts for gelation and calcination temperatures exhibit superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports show high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 fully recovering after oxidative regeneration, highlighting their potential for commercial PDH processes in overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits (Quote 7), and modifying supports to control coke (Quote 8). These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a promising alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, with their structured acidity, serve as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, with small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework acting as active phases. Supported ZnO catalysts on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalysts in meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the increasing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation is crucial, requiring innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Active sites and deactivation mechanisms are pivotal, necessitating the optimization of particle size for increased active sites while managing diverse local environments. Balancing the formation of undesired products, which can lead to deactivation, with high propylene selectivity is a challenge. Strategies include manipulating geometric and electronic states to influence propylene adsorption and side reactions, using supports and promoters to modulate acidity and electron transfer, and adjusting reaction conditions to reduce coke formation. These approaches aim to improve catalyst performance by inhibiting deactivation, promoting selectivity, and enhancing stability through controlled geometric and electronic effects.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH is a viable alternative. It tackles the critical challenge of catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability, directly addressing the need for improved processes in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke deposition, remains a challenge. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is more promising than nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but introduces overoxidation risks. CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternative solutions but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability. Innovative design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for addressing the increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and traditional method constraints. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving efficiency and selectivity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional oil-based cracking limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH for Al2O3 synthesis boosts VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to direct co-assembly. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 properties. Si-beta zeolites serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher V3+ species, are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Catalyst design considers support nature and metal-support interactions. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face limitations due to toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally compatible solution. This catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, as evidenced in industrial conditions testing.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an efficient alternative for propylene production, potentially lowering energy requirements. However, challenges include decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms are investigated for NiOx-based ODH catalysts. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Potassium minimizes the undesired influence on alkene selectivity in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as alternatives. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, a new PDH method at lower temperatures is sought to reduce energy use. A novel approach uses non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts in microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opening a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, addresses the need for stable and recyclable catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing issues like poor selectivity, fast deactivation, and stability problems due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism in oxidative PDH requires lower temperatures for higher selectivity, highlighting the need for improved catalyst design to meet increasing demand and adapt to global energy changes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques meet industrial propylene demand with high selectivity, tackling catalyst deactivation through optimized design. ZrO2-based catalysts, crucial for cost-effective C3 and C4 alkane dehydrogenation, show improved performance with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase. Tuning phase composition enhances activity and selectivity, while lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment creates active sites, vital for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, particularly VOx/γ-Al2O3, are promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are employed, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, and metal oxides are used to boost resistance against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements enhance stability and recyclability, ensuring commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, both oxidative and non-oxidative, are emerging as viable alternatives. Innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O2, tackle catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, cost-effective and eco-friendly, demonstrate superior catalytic properties for PDH. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and VOX/MCM-41, respectively, achieve high activity, stability, and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit remarkable long-term stability in multiple reaction-regeneration cycles for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting the size of the platinum catalyst, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with the need for more efficient production methods to meet the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques meet industrial propylene demand by directly converting propane, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions, resulting in low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable ZnO catalysts ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites boosting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and meeting industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH presents a viable alternative. It addresses production challenges through evolving catalyst design strategies, targeting deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with the global energy landscape's evolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), which aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. For instance, the use of Pt-based catalysts with specific geometric and electronic structures can significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, while the addition of promoters like Cu can elevate energy barriers for unwanted reactions and facilitate propylene desorption. Moreover, modifying supports with metal oxides or using nanocarbons can decrease acidity, modulate dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, and provide spatial constraints to avoid sintering. These approaches collectively enhance the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through unspecified innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes, responding to growing industrial demand and conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation and coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke but introduces overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution. Innovative design strategies are essential for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving efficiency and selectivity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but recent innovations in design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing VOx/Al2O3 catalysts synthesized via CADH to enhance performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, including V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows enhanced performance from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, as demonstrated by the improved performance of VOx/ZrO2 and VOx/Si-beta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, meeting industrial demand. Existing Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and environmental drawbacks. A novel ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, offering an eco-friendly solution to catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. However, challenges remain, such as decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation offer cogeneration potential. However, VOx catalysts struggle with decreased propene selectivity at higher conversions, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, with insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 aiding in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To address these challenges, researchers have developed a novel low-temperature PDH method using microwave catalytic reaction mode with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This innovative design, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, effectively addresses deactivation issues and improves recyclability, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants interact with surface oxygen, creating vacancies. Adding an oxidant addresses thermodynamic limitations but requires temperature control for selectivity. Complex reaction mechanisms and side reactions are considerations in PDH systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH stands out as a viable process, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity, surpassing tetragonal ZrO2. Crucially, ZrO2's capability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment facilitates the creation of active sites, essential for propane activation, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial. The active site isolation strategy enhances PDH performance, as per Quote [3]. A CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, as in Quote [5], achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation, showcasing exceptional PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, due to their activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of these catalysts, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. This leads to enhanced stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites. These advancements promote selective dehydrogenation while reducing coke formation, ensuring robust catalysts withstand high temperatures and maintain activity. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and using alloying elements further enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques, notably using V-based catalysts, are emerging as a solution. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior activity and stability, crucial for PDH. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 show high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 fully recovering after oxidative regeneration. These advancements highlight the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes, maintaining high propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the increasing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet growing industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making ZnO catalysts low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand of 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the need for alternatives like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Oxidative dehydrogenation processes, including CO2-PDH, are gaining traction. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. The acidity of the zeolite matrix, whether SiBeta or AlBeta, greatly influences catalytic properties and selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Ongoing development of innovative catalyst design strategies aims to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts with optimized active sites and dehydrogenation pathways. Particle size is crucial, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. Deactivation often results from side reactions like deep dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis, leading to the formation of undesired products. Innovative design strategies focus on modifying the geometric and electronic properties of catalysts to inhibit deactivation, such as by controlling the coordination structure and electronic states of Pt atoms. The use of bimetallic compounds and supports like CeO2 and TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by inhibiting coke formation and sintering. Additionally, adjusting reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst performance. These strategies are crucial for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH stands as a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability are pivotal through innovative design strategies in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, underscoring the need for advancements in catalyst technology.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperature, but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, optimizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    