Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Mesoporous Al2O3 supports synthesized through the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) improve VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance, with crystallization temperature affecting the distribution of surface V species. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of isolated V3+ species, crucial for catalytic activity. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, with propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction. The highest space time yield (STY) achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. Surface acidity modifications, active V3+ species, and weakened metalsupport interactions facilitate desorption of propene and inhibit deep dehydrogenation. Excessive Mg addition sharply decreases acidity, leading to loss of DDH activity. The V/SiO2 catalyst displays optimal catalytic performance, achieving a superior initial propene yield of 59.5% and stable propene selectivity of 90% over 6 h at 580 C, with a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high initial propane conversion and propene selectivity, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, displays a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The role of other V species on the DDH reaction remains unclear, and further work could yield more active and stable DDH catalysts. The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 times less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a crucial oil-based cracking alternative for propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional PDH, using Cr or Pt catalysts, encounters toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, provides an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst, featuring active ZnOx species, exhibits three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, significantly enhancing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements through oxidative dehydrogenation, which has an energy intensification advantage. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and doped ceria for enhanced selectivity, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux improve stability and recyclability. VOx-based catalysts and NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being optimized through electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Potassium minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity, and oxidative dehydrogenation offers an energy intensification advantage.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to the limitations of traditional PDH methods, which use costly, scarce, or harmful Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts prone to coking and cracking, and have high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM), researchers have developed a novel PDH approach. This innovative method employs a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) at lower temperatures, significantly reducing energy consumption. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, Sn as the promoter, and carbon nitride as the support, addresses stability and recyclability issues while enhancing the value of abundant propane resources, offering a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, crucial in oxidative PDH, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies, highlighting the need for controlled conditions to prevent over-oxidation and achieve higher selectivity. These advancements overcome traditional method limitations, meeting growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, utilize ZrO2-based catalysts, which are eco-friendly and cost-efficient, showing activity and selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation. Monoclinic ZrO2 outperforms tetragonal in propene selectivity, enhanced by optimizing phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes. Active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, are created by the ability to release lattice oxygen, overcoming deactivation and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, address the surge in propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are optimized for PDH through an active site isolation strategy. Notably, spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers supported on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrate exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as highlighted in Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts are particularly promising due to their high activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence, effectively mitigate deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups notably improve stability by reducing coke deposition, a critical factor for nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a viable propylene production alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through the strategic use of promoters to resist coking. Enhancing stability and recyclability is achieved by optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements, critical for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, both oxidative and non-oxidative, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts show long-term stability, high propane conversion, and propene selectivity. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration, highlighting their commercial PDH potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have led to the prominence of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face significant deactivation due to coke formation, which hinders performance (Quote 3). To address this, strategies include cofeeding reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as Sn (Quote 7), and modifying supports (Quote 8). These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring the catalysts remain effective in the face of increasing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, converting propane to propylene, address industrial demand and production limits. Innovative catalyst design, like high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts boost activity, reduce side reactions, and are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, offer optimal conditions for chromium dispersion, essential for high catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion has proven effective, with the acidity of the zeolite playing a key role; low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amid rising propylene demand and traditional method constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, effectively tackling production challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to increase selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. As noted, 'Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective.' Innovative design strategies are crucial for addressing these uncertainties and enhancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling limitations of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design strategies in oxidative and nonoxidative PDH enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues to meet escalating industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods in the face of growing industrial demand. Challenges persist with noble metal catalysts and energy efficiency, leading to the investigation of alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which, however, suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but poses overoxidation risks. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being explored, but issues like catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing limitations of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial viability, thermally-induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are pivotal in boosting catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes, especially in the context of evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including CADH for synthesizing Al2O3, P and Mg modification for VOx/Al2O3, and the use of V-DMSNs, Si-beta, and ZrO2 as supports, enhance stability and recyclability. Crystallization temperature impacts VOx/Al2O3 performance by affecting surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V-DMSNs enhance V5+ interaction with silica, leading to high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, influencing metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, is environmentally compatible and significantly boosts propene productivity while maintaining selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, notably ODH, offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by balancing alkane conversion with alkene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux at dehydrogenation temperatures. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored. Achieving sufficient propene yield remains a challenge, with VOx catalysts showing decreased selectivity at higher conversions. The nature of the VOx phase is critical, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 could lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address the limitations of costly, scarce, and prone-to-coking traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts. Researchers are exploring direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, used for the first time under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, overcoming issues of deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. This endothermic process, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C on Al2O3-supported substrates, faces challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, governing oxidative dehydrogenation, necessitates temperature control for high selectivity, as products are prone to further oxidation. Understanding and addressing these challenges is crucial for advancing PDH as a sustainable propylene production method, especially in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative design strategies, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, effectively tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Monoclinic ZrO2, with its smaller crystallite size, outperforms tetragonal ZrO2 in propene production, making it a key strategy in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, meets growing propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH, with active site isolation boosting performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized for PDH, achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and shows no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on surface-bound hydroxyl groups to enhance stability by suppressing coke deposition, a critical factor in deactivation, thus improving recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation issues by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation, ensuring robustness against high temperatures for long-term activity. Promoters and optimal metal-support interactions enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41. These catalysts, notably VOX-SiO2, exhibit high activity, reduced carbon deposition, and recyclability through oxidative regeneration, maintaining propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple cycles, making them a promising choice for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges, notably the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address this, including the use of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst recyclability and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring more sustainable and effective propylene production methods. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism, underscoring the need for a systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts to improve reactivity and stability in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and meeting industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical propylene production alternative, tackling growing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, reflecting the evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being tackled through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include optimizing particle size to increase active sites while managing the diversity of exposed atoms, which impacts selectivity and stability. Geometric and electronic structures play a critical role in adsorption configurations and the potential for side reactions, leading to catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies aim to optimize these structures to improve propylene selectivity and reduce coke formation, a primary cause of deactivation. The use of bimetallic compounds, modification of supports, and controlling reaction conditions are explored to inhibit deactivation, focusing on the balance between activity and selectivity. Insights into deactivation mechanisms are crucial for designing more stable PDH catalysts, and strategies such as tuning support acidity and controlling reaction conditions are being developed to enhance catalyst performance and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability, aligning with growing industrial demand and evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts, notably metal oxides, face rapid deactivation and coke deposition challenges, underscoring the need for further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, employing O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative processes. O2 eliminates coke and reduces reaction temperature but poses overoxidation risks. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but produces less heat. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals present alternative solutions, requiring catalyst regeneration and addressing toxicity issues for industrial feasibility. Finding the optimal catalyst-oxidant combination is critical for effective oxidative dehydrogenation of paraffins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Key approaches include utilizing well-defined supported vanadium oxide catalysts to enhance selectivity and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial viability, thermally-induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, are being developed to boost stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues and ensuring PDH's role in the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance through increased Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and VOx/ZrO2 show promise due to high surface area and thermal stability, with ZrO2 enhancing V3+ species. Catalyst support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts encounter toxicity and regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, developed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offers environmental compatibility and superior performance. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, as evidenced in benchmark tests.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations with energy efficiency. Challenges include temperature effects on selectivity and catalyst deactivation, but innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux are among the solutions. VOx and NiOx catalysts are critical, with ongoing research on CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation. Although higher temperatures increase alkane conversion, they decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Direct dehydrogenation is energy-intensive, but ODH has the potential to lower energy requirements. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, ensuring proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to the limitations of costly and scarce Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts, which suffer from coking and cracking, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) is developed for low-temperature propane dehydrogenation. This innovative approach reduces energy consumption and opens a new route for efficient propane utilization, overcoming catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability. The use of CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under MCRM significantly improves the lifetime of the catalyst by reducing deactivation caused by coking, offering a promising solution for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts showing high activity but poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group elements, and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, requires lower temperatures for higher selectivity. These strategies, supported by computational methods, aim to balance activity and selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable solution with high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts optimize phase composition and crystallite size, addressing deactivation issues to enhance activity and selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase improve performance, while the catalyst's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zr cation sites, crucial for propane activation. This leads to eco-friendly and cost-effective PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, addresses rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are pivotal, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A synthesized catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after extended use, illustrating innovative design strategies to overcome deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable solution for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of conventional methods. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with high activity and selectivity, are crucial in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface structure to suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH, meeting the evolving needs of the industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations highlight PDH's potential. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts for selective dehydrogenation and coke minimization. Enhancing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, vital for PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have led to the viability of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, notably oxidative and non-oxidative processes. Innovative design strategies for V-based catalysts, such as VOX-SiO2, VOX/Al2O3, and VOX/MCM-41, tackle catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported high activity and stability in mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts and VOX/MCM-41, respectively, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showed long-term stability over multiple cycles, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces the challenge of catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which significantly affects performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, enhancing stability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial propylene demand by directly converting propane, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalysts, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts boost activity, minimize side reactions, and are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand forecasted to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues and boosts stability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, as evidenced by a direct correlation between the number of redox Cr sites and propene yield. This approach enhances recyclability and aligns with evolving global energy landscapes, positioning PDH as a promising solution for meeting the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative amid growing demand and conventional limitations. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's effectiveness in evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include optimizing particle sizes in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts to increase active sites while maintaining stability. The use of single-atom catalysts and alloying with promoters like Cu and Zn has shown promise in improving selectivity towards propylene and inhibiting side reactions that lead to coke formation. Modifying supports with metal oxides and adjusting reaction conditions by cofeeding H2 and CO2 can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst stability. Preventing sintering through strong metal-support interactions and confinement effects in mesoporous materials maintains catalyst activity over multiple cycles. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable solution to meet growing propylene demand, addressing the shortcomings of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in combating deactivation issues, ensuring enhanced stability and improved recyclability, as highlighted in the quote.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst deactivation, especially in alternative metal oxides like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, is a significant challenge due to rapid deactivation and coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke but risking overoxidation, and CO2 consuming H2 but forming less heat. Solid oxygen carriers (CeO2, SbO4, In2O3, WO3, PbOx, Tl2O3, BiO3) and noble metals (Pt, Au) offer selective hydrogen combustion solutions, but require frequent regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability. Innovative design strategies are essential to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing the evolving industrial demand and global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes, meeting rising industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative due to the price variance between propane and propylene. Despite commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. Direct co-assembly of V/SiO2 catalysts ensures high dispersion and stability of VOx species. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile reduction of VO bonds, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species. These approaches, focusing on support nature and metal-support interactions, tune the proportion and stability of active V species, significantly impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer environmental compatibility and enhanced performance. These catalysts, with defective OH groups playing a key role, demonstrate triple the propene productivity under industrial conditions compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, showcasing their potential in overcoming deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high surface area and oxygen flux, are crucial. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed, considering electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, offers a sustainable method for propylene production, reducing energy consumption and providing a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt catalysts, including poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving oxygen vacancies and their subsequent oxidation, is pivotal in oxidative PDH, with efforts focusing on improving catalysts to balance activity and selectivity. Understanding and addressing thermodynamic limitations and the need for lower temperatures for higher selectivity are also critical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, critical for meeting growing propylene demand, are enhanced by innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design. Optimized phase composition, notably the monoclinic phase with smaller crystallite sizes, boosts activity and selectivity, addressing deactivation challenges. This design ensures the catalyst releases lattice oxygen, creating Zrcus sites for propane activation, improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, particularly CoOx@NC/S-1, excel in PDH with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius. The active site isolation strategy enhances performance, making cobalt catalysts a promising long-term PDH solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxides, due to their activity and regeneration capabilities, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, improving stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Catalyst deactivation poses a challenge, prompting the development of innovative design strategies. These include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tailored to enhance stability and recyclability, promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation, ensuring robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures and maintain activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, notably those using V-based catalysts, emerge as a viable alternative. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, with their superior stability and recyclability, demonstrate full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting V-based catalysts' potential in commercial PDH processes to tackle deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable production method, as noted in quote [1] and [2]. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation (quote [3]), poses a significant challenge to performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being explored to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote [6]), alloying platinum with metals such as tin (quote [7]), modifying supports (quote [8]), adjusting catalyst size (quote [9]), and investigating single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional methods, PDH emerges as a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly with CO2 assistance, is gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing PDH efficiency. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites favors high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of acidity on PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. To combat catalyst deactivation, PDH processes are being optimized with innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability, making them more efficient and sustainable.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites, while understanding Pt geometric sites and valence states is crucial for adsorption and reactivity. Structure-sensitive side reactions lead to undesired products and catalyst deactivation. Solutions include using single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals for facile propylene desorption and higher selectivity. Modifying supports with reducible metal oxides like TiO2 improves stability and C3H6 selectivity. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively affect coke elimination. The confinement situation offered by a support can prevent sintering and provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals. These strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, enhancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts are effective, alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 2, 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, ensures full paraffin conversion (Quote 5, 6). Solid oxygen carriers, such as CeO2, and noble metals like Pt and Au, are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 16). However, these alternatives require frequent catalyst regeneration and some are toxic (Quote 19), highlighting the need for further research for industrial viability (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints have led to the viability of PDH techniques, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which address deactivation issues, enhancing stability, recyclability, and efficiency in PDH processes, as they improve selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes have propelled nonoxidative PDH techniques as a promising alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have significantly improved stability and recyclability, addressing key deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design to overcome deactivation issues. CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, as per quote [3], is environmentally friendly and outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, as evidenced by comparative testing (quote [7]).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, notably oxidative dehydrogenation, offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. These techniques have the potential to lower energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Doped ceria is promising for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially co-generating alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, including decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the critical nature of the VOx phase for VOx-based catalysts. The design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is also being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have driven the evolution of PDH techniques. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, making the direct PDH reaction energy-intensive under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these issues, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed, utilizing a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst for direct PDH at lower temperatures. This innovation reduces energy consumption and opens new avenues for utilizing abundant propane resources. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to prevent coking, and carbon nitride as support, addresses the need for stable and recyclable catalysts in PDH processes, offering a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation. Innovative strategies, including doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, refilled by O2 or CO2. Addressing thermodynamic limitations and improving selectivity, researchers are developing advanced catalysts and computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, offering high selectivity amidst growing industrial demand. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, particularly the monoclinic phase, enhance activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, significantly improving PDH catalyst performance and addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, is a critical method for meeting the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are essential in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on managing surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies. Promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides, optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements enhance stability and recyclability, addressing key challenges for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and conventional method limitations, PDH techniques, particularly V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, are emerging. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for PDH, demonstrate high activity, stability, and recyclability over eight cycles, maintaining high propene selectivity and minimal propane conversion decline, making them a promising solution for commercial PDH processes and deactivation challenges in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale production. However, catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in PDH processes, addressing the need for more efficient production methods, as highlighted in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, addressing industrial demand and bypassing steam cracking. Innovative ZnO catalysts on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites enhance stability and recyclability, minimizing side reactions and boosting catalytic activity. These cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts are ideal for industrial propylene production, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is essential for improving PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with their high thermal stability and large surface area, enable optimal dispersion of chromium species, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with a well-established correlation between the number of redox Cr sites and propene yield up to 2wt % of Cr. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals the positive effect of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, tackling growing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Central to its success are innovative catalyst design strategies that combat deactivation, bolster stability, and boost recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to boost selectivity and stability, minimize coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. As demonstrated by Xiong et al., singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, highlighting the potential of these design strategies to optimize PDH catalysts. Gong and coworkers have shown that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can increase propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design is crucial for combating deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, addressing a gap in detailed literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and the limitations of traditional methods. Despite progress with PtSn and CrOx catalysts, alternative metal oxides like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition (Quote [3]), highlighting the need for further research (Quote [4]). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations (Quote [5]), is explored using O2 and CO2 as oxidants, each presenting distinct challenges. Solid oxygen carriers (Quote [16]) and noble metals (Quote [19]) present alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional oil-based cracking limitations, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing key PDH process challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. P and Mg modification enhance catalyst stability and performance; P reduces VOx polymerization, while Mg decreases coke deposits. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 affects catalytic performance through the distribution of surface V species. Co-assembly techniques for V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, enhance V5+ species interaction with silica, leading to high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit high propene yields due to the production of active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. Preparation methods significantly influence the proportion and stability of active V species, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have limitations due to toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst offers an environmentally friendly solution, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial alternatives. This addresses catalyst deactivation challenges and enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes, making it a promising approach in the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by enhancing energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are critical for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the type and geometry of the membrane. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase for performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Costly, scarce, and toxic Cr6 and Pt catalysts, prone to coking and cracking, are being replaced. New PDH methods at lower temperatures reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM is developed for the first time, utilizing cobalt as the active site, tin to reduce coking, and carbon nitride as support, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, which exhibit poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These approaches address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with the catalyst's surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant to the reaction feed helps overcome thermodynamic limitations but requires temperature control for high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, crucial for meeting rising propylene demand, overcome limitations of traditional methods. ZrO2-based catalysts, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, boosting catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with active site isolation boosting performance. A novel catalyst (CoOx@NC/S-1) achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, exemplifying innovative design to tackle catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, pivotal in PDH for their activity and selectivity, face deactivation challenges. Innovative design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability by controlling the catalysts' surface structure under reaction conditions. Notably, surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key deactivation factor, optimizing performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design. Tailored single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts minimize coke formation, enhancing selective dehydrogenation. Promoters, including late transition metals, boost resistance to coking. Optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle characteristics, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, critical for commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and MCM-41 enhance stability and recyclability, overcoming deactivation issues. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts show full recovery after oxidative regeneration, as reported by Sokolov et al., highlighting high stability. Bai et al. found that optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintain 91% propene selectivity over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, demonstrating long-term stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution. PDH efficiently produces propylene at scale, yet faces catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate this issue, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying catalyst supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring efficient propylene production, as highlighted by recent studies and industry trends.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, address growing propylene demand and catalyst deactivation challenges. These catalysts improve activity and stability, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP). Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH, with high dispersion and redox chromium species crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination and impregnation techniques enhance chromium dispersion, while redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Zeolite acidity affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability are pivotal through innovative design strategies, optimizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing production challenges. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential for overcoming catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also expose atoms to diverse local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. Deactivation often results from side reactions leading to the formation of undesired products and coke, which can be mitigated through the design of specific reaction ensembles and the tuning of support properties. Strategies for inhibiting coke include the use of specific promoters, adjusting reaction conditions, and transferring coke precursors from active metals to supports. Preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles and maintaining the dispersion of active metals are key to catalyst stability. Strong metal-support interactions and confinement effects provided by supports can prevent aggregation and sintering, ensuring the longevity of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH presents a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability. However, specifics on these strategies remain underexplored, indicating a knowledge gap in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation (Quote 8). CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic (Quote 11). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling rising demand and conventional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for efficient propylene output in evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional oil-based cracking limitations, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the propane-propylene price gap. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, prompting advancements in PDH catalyst design to enhance stability and recyclability. Strategies focus on active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including CADH for Al2O3 synthesis, P and Mg modification for VOx/Al2O3, and co-assembly for V/SiO2, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to V3+ species production. Catalyst support nature is crucial, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts show STYs significantly lower than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, as per quote [3], offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst, formed through reductive treatment (quote [4]), shows, as per quote [7], three times higher propene productivity without compromising selectivity, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency. These methods lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation but face challenges like dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face limitations due to cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking. Direct propane dehydrogenation under conventional reaction mode is energy-intensive. Researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach uses a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode, addressing coking issues and opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements aim to improve selectivity, reduce byproducts, and address the elusive nature of reaction mechanisms on catalysts, as seen in the MVK mechanism for oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with catalyst surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies, influencing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, effectively address deactivation issues by releasing lattice oxygen, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity, offering cost-efficient and environmentally friendly solutions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH techniques emerge as a viable solution. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. This strategy, as proven, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency. A novel catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques, notably using supported vanadium oxides, offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts reduce coke formation, while late transition metals and rare-earth oxides enhance robustness. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, critical for high-temperature operation and activity maintenance amid growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. V-based catalysts on mesoporous silica, like VOX-SiO2, show superior stability, tackling deactivation issues. Optimized for PDH, VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%, highlighting their commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, an established industrial process, faces the challenge of coke formation, which significantly impacts the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst stability include the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. These advancements aim to improve recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the increasing demand for propylene. Despite progress, there is a need for an updated and systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts, which is crucial for reactivity and stability in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene and bypassing steam cracking. Innovative ZnO catalysts on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These cost-effective, non-toxic catalysts enable active ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, improving catalytic activity and stability for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand of 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance. Redox cycles involving Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are pivotal in the oxidative pathway, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly affecting propene yield. This design strategy ensures high selectivity to propene and minimizes propane cracking, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial in meeting rising demand and overcoming conventional production limits.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address issues of deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial, as is the role of particle size in increasing the number of active sites and the diversity of exposed atoms, which can lead to catalyst deactivation through side reactions. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to design more stable PDH catalysts. As stated in quote [1], the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH are not yet fully understood, highlighting the need for further research. Quote [4] emphasizes that side reactions like deep dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis result in catalyst deactivation, underlining the importance of design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. It innovates catalyst design to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the growing industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional production methods. Alternative catalysts, including GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and poor regeneration capabilities. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, is a promising alternative. Oxygen (O2) eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but introduces risks of overoxidation. Carbon dioxide (CO2) consumes hydrogen but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers, such as CeO2, and noble metals like Pt and Au, show potential but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity concerns, necessitating further research for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, is a cost-effective alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance through increased Lewis acid sites via the cationanion double hydrolysis approach. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ species interaction. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts by about 34 times.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, overcoming oil-based process limitations. Current PDH technologies face challenges with toxic or ecologically harmful catalyst regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, prepared through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst, formed by defective OH groups, exhibits about three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, at similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially reduce energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation could cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques are advancing. Existing Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, though effective, are expensive, scarce, or toxic, and suffer from long-term coking issues. Researchers are developing low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) addresses deactivation and stability issues, offering a new route for high-value propane utilization at lower temperatures, effectively reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, PDH emerges as a promising alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Understanding the MVK mechanism is key to developing catalysts that balance activity and selectivity while minimizing side reactions, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, a promising alternative for propylene production, utilize innovative ZrO2-based catalysts that are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance catalyst activity, selectivity, and stability, addressing deactivation challenges and improving recyclability in non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1 with isolated cobalt oxide sites on silicalite-1 zeolite, demonstrate exceptional PDH performance: 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, thanks to the active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH using vanadium oxide catalysts emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts to enhance stability and recyclability, notably through surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, which suppress coke deposition, a key cause of deactivation, thus boosting performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing limitations of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design, employing promoters like late transition metals and optimizing metal-support interactions, enhances resistance to coking and boosts stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques using V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 supports address deactivation issues. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit superior activity and stability, critical for PDH. V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 show high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 fully regenerating after oxidative treatment, making them promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative for large-scale production. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly coke formation, poses a significant challenge to platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies to mitigate deactivation include reductive gas cofeeding to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals like tin for enhanced benefits, and modifying supports to control coke formation. These approaches aim to improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the urgent need for effective methods to reduce coke and maintain catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH directly converts propane to propylene, addressing rising demand and production limitations. Innovative catalyst design, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements make the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, meeting industrial needs and aligning with global energy trends.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation on Beta zeolites optimizes catalyst performance, with low acidity favoring high propene selectivity. This approach is crucial for meeting industrial demand and adapting to changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as highlighted: 'PDH techniques address these challenges by providing an alternative route for propylene production.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, however, remains a significant challenge, affecting stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies, including alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), are being developed to enhance selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. These strategies aim to optimize PDH efficiency and recyclability. Challenges include understanding active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms, the impact of particle size on deactivation, and balancing activity with selectivity. Bimetallic compounds and modifications to supports, metals, and treatments are being explored to inhibit deactivation. The design of catalytic systems with enhanced performance is crucial, focusing on inhibiting deactivation mechanisms and optimizing reaction conditions to reduce coke formation. Understanding the process of coke deposition and implementing effective strategies to inhibit coke are critical for improving catalyst performance and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for adapting to the evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 prevents coke, lowers temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks must be managed. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates. Resolving these issues is crucial for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a critical focus, improve selectivity and efficiency in PDH reactions, aligning with industrial demand and evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and oil-based cracking limitations, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a hurdle, yet recent catalyst design advancements, including active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, are addressing this challenge to improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. Strategies include CADH for mesoporous Al2O3 synthesis, enhancing stability and activity. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability, increasing propene yields. Direct co-assembly of V/SiO2 catalysts enhances interaction between V5+ species and silica support, boosting activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile reduction of VO bonds, are more active than VOx/Al2O3. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation, affecting catalytic activity. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing its potential in overcoming deactivation challenges and enhancing stability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements for dehydrogenation. However, they face challenges like decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalyst performance, and designing efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms is being explored. Acid site titration increases propene selectivity but may reduce propane conversion. Understanding these mechanisms and integrating insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 can lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, which are costly, scarce, or detrimental, and prone to deactivation. A novel approach uses CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) for direct propane dehydrogenation at low temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism in oxidative dehydrogenation requires temperature control for high selectivity, addressing the need for advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity over traditional methods. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, effectively tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, making them industrially relevant for C3 and C4 alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and production limits. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with active site isolation boosting performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst showcases high propane conversion to propene with >97% selectivity and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using supported vanadium oxides as catalysts, address growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional methods. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups suppress coke deposition, improving catalyst stability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies focus on selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation, and ensuring robustness against high temperatures and long-term activity. Promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides boost resistance to coking, while optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape are crucial for stable and recyclable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, notably through V-based catalysts like VOX-SiO2, VOX/MCM-41, and VOX/Al2O3, which exhibit superior stability and recyclability. Optimized gelation and calcination temperatures for VOX-SiO2 significantly enhance long-term stability and catalytic activity, addressing deactivation challenges and making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale production (Quote 2). However, the formation of coke during PDH significantly impacts the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts (Quote 3). To address this, strategies such as the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6) and alloying Pt with metals like tin (Sn) (Quote 7) are being explored to reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst stability. These innovative approaches aim to improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing ZnO catalysts supported by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, address propylene production challenges by enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Small ZnO clusters within the zeolite framework improve performance, making the catalysts low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, thus meeting industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a vital alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are optimal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly influencing propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites encourages propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, highlighting the impact of acidity on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable solution to meet growing propylene demand, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to increase selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance overall efficiency and recyclability. Understanding the process of coke deposition is key to improving catalyst performance and optimizing regeneration. The use of specific promoters and supports, as well as changes in reaction conditions, can positively affect coke elimination and prolong catalyst life. As reported by Xiong et al., single-dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity. The addition of an appropriate amount of reducible metal oxides such as TiO2 improves catalytic stability and propylene selectivity. Modifying the Al2O3 support with metal oxides like TiO2 and CeO2 enhances interaction between Pt and supports, improving the activity, stability, and anti-coking capability of Pt-based catalysts. Cofeeding streams such as H2 and CO2 can also have a positive effect on coke elimination. Strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) can be generated from chemical reactions at the metal-oxide interface, preventing sintering of metal particles. The confinement situation offered by a support can provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals, avoiding sintering. Nanocarbons, such as carbon nanotubes and nanodiamonds, are outstanding catalyst supports for dehydrogenation, inhibiting the agglomeration of Pt NPs. Mesoporous materials have been reported as promising supports for Pt-based catalysts for PDH owing to their confinement effect. Regenerating catalysts under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts. Understanding the deactivation mechanism and proposing effective strategies are essential for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. It prioritizes innovative catalyst design to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods amid growing industrial demand. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, while receiving attention, deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and irrecoverable activity (quote [2], [3]). Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2 as oxidizing agents, avoids thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative processes (quote [5], [6]). O2 eliminates coke deposition but risks overoxidation, while CO2 results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition. Finding the right combination of catalyst material and oxidizing agent is crucial for an effective oxidative dehydrogenation process (quote [15]). Issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing limitations of traditional techniques. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively mitigates deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving PDH process efficiency and selectivity in response to growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective solution, leveraging the propane-propylene price differential. Thermal deactivation of PDH catalysts persists as a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, tackling the deactivation issue head-on.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for Al2O3 synthesis affects VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance through crystallization temperature, influencing Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Innovative V/SiO2 catalyst preparation, like direct co-assembly for V-DMSNs, enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 catalytic performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, increasing active V3+ species. Metal-support interactions and acid sites influence surface VOx species, affecting catalyst design. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst offers environmental compatibility and demonstrates about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity under industrial conditions, making it a promising solution to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by its performance compared to conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing traditional method limitations by lowering energy requirements. Challenges include temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity, leading to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored. NiOx-based catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, while VOx-based catalysts require careful phase design for high alkene selectivity. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Existing PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these challenges, a groundbreaking approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced. This novel method operates at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. This development directly tackles the need for a direct propane dehydrogenation method that can minimize energy consumption and overcome catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation, requires temperature control to prevent over-oxidation, highlighting the need for advanced catalyst design to optimize PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, notably using ZrO2-based catalysts, meet industrial demand for propylene with high propene selectivity. Innovative design strategies optimize phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity, crucial for active sites in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, meet growing propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. A synthesized catalyst with isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1 zeolite achieves high propane conversion to propene with exceptional selectivity and stability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are investigated as high-activity PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies, such as utilizing surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation and reducing coke formation. Strategies to enhance stability and recyclability involve optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size, crucial for commercial PDH success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. V-based catalysts, such as VOX-SiO2 and V/γ-Al2O3, are being developed to combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported high PDH activity and stability with V-based catalysts, the latter achieving full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. noted VOX/MCM-41's superior catalytic properties for PDH, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintaining 91% propene selectivity over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, making V-based catalysts suitable for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical route for meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene. Pt catalysts, vital in PDH, face deactivation challenges, notably due to coke formation, which undermines performance (Quote 3). Strategies to enhance stability and recyclability include hydrogen cofeeding to reduce coke (Quote 6), Pt-Sn alloying for multiple benefits including coke reduction (Quote 7), and adjusting Pt size to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These approaches, along with support modification and exploration of single atom catalysts, are being developed to improve PDH efficiency and address catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production amidst growing demand and evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected demand for propylene reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably oxidative dehydrogenation, emerges as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields effective CO2-PDH catalysts, as demonstrated by improved propene yield through redox cycles involving Cr sites. The acidity of zeolites, with SiBeta promoting high propene selectivity and AlBeta favoring propane cracking, highlights the impact of dealumination on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations underscore PDH's viability. Innovative design strategies address catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for industrial needs and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), which aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the overall efficiency of PDH processes. As highlighted by researchers, the coordination structure and electronic states of active sites significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, while the size of metal particles affects the fraction of active sites and the rate of deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are crucial for the design of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in processes, meeting rising demand amidst conventional production constraints.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and poor regeneration, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations: O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternatives but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints have led to the viability of PDH techniques. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking have propelled PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, as a cost-effective solution due to the price gap between propane and propylene. While catalyst deactivation is a persistent issue, recent design strategies aim to boost stability and recyclability by regulating active sites, enhancing metal-support interaction, and modifying supports.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing stability and recyclability. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly of V/SiO2 catalysts enhances V5+ interaction with silica, boosting activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibit higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of conventional methods. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts pose toxicity and ecological concerns. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offers enhanced stability and recyclability. Testing reveals this catalyst boasts three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional alternatives, marking a significant advancement in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, crucial for efficient catalysts. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are explored for enhanced performance. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry are key for efficiency. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors offer potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy from dehydrogenation of alkanes. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, operating under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) at lower temperatures, reduces energy consumption and coking deactivation. Cobalt serves as the active site, while tin promotes stability, offering a sustainable solution for PDH processes. This development opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant C3H8 resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, refilled by O2 or CO2, forming a catalytic cycle. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, necessitating careful temperature control for high selectivity. Ongoing research focuses on refining catalysts to balance activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, critical for propylene production, meet industrial demand with high selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and smaller monoclinic crystallites, combat deactivation, enhancing propene activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, meet growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. Active site isolation enhances catalytic performance. A catalyst with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on surface structure control, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups in suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. This enhances stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are pivotal, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH, achieved by enhancing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and incorporating alloying elements to improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 exhibit superior catalytic properties for PDH, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium constraints and minimizing carbon deposition. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts show high activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. Bai et al. reported high performance for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to maintain stable PDH properties and fully recover with oxidative regeneration, highlighting the stability of VOX species. These findings underscore the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hampers platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations have contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism, aiding in the design of more stable and recyclable catalysts for PDH processes. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO, address propylene production challenges by enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability. These zeolites disperse Zn species, minimizing side reactions and yielding active ZnO clusters, ideal for industrial propylene production amidst rising demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is essential for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly influence propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity of SiBeta supports high propene selectivity, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite, unlike over AlBeta, highlighting the importance of acidity control in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting rising demand amidst conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that increase the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, which can significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Understanding the role of Pt geometric sites and the adsorption configurations of propane and propene is essential for improving selectivity and stability. The challenge of deactivation, often due to coke formation, can be mitigated through the design of catalysts with inhibited deactivation, achieved by modifying supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as the cofeeding of H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst stability. The size of Pt clusters also plays a significant role in dehydrogenation pathways, and preventing sintering at high PDH reaction temperatures is critical. Strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the confinement effect provided by supports can prevent the aggregation of Pt nanoparticles, maintaining their stability and catalytic performance. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous regeneration may not fully restore catalytic performance over multiple cycles. Innovative approaches to catalyst design, such as the use of single-atom alloys and the modification of support acidity, are being developed to enhance the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing industrial demand. Alternative catalysts, like metal oxides, face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for ongoing research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, utilizing O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges such as overoxidation and endothermic reactions. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential for selective hydrogen combustion, yet require solutions for catalyst regeneration and toxicity issues to become industrially viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability, recyclability, and overall performance, in response to growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are crucial for improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, tackling catalyst deactivation. Innovations enhance stability and recyclability. CADH boosts Al2O3's catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P-modified VOx/Al2O3 reduces polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 exhibits anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions. Preparation methods tune active V species proportion and stability. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH, a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addresses industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts, with Cr or Pt, face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative, eco-friendly ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction with OH groups above 550C, overcomes these challenges. Defective OH groups are crucial for the formation of active ZnOx species. This catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are explored for efficient dehydrogenation. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and stability in the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are addressing the limitations of traditional propylene production methods, particularly the issues with costly, scarce, and coking-prone Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts. Aiming to reduce energy consumption, researchers have developed a novel low-temperature PDH process under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This process utilizes a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This advancement meets the increasing industrial demand for propylene while navigating the changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but suffering from poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing the challenges of both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, is crucial in understanding the reaction pathways. The addition of an oxidant can help break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. These advancements align with the evolving global energy landscape, addressing the need for efficient and sustainable propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques using ZrO2-based catalysts meet industrial propylene demand with high propene selectivity. Optimizing ZrO2's phase composition and crystallite size, particularly the monoclinic phase and smaller sizes, boosts activity, selectivity, and stability, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, capitalizing on abundant shale-gas propane, offer a viable alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with the active site isolation strategy enhancing catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups to enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, a key deactivation issue, improving stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are essential for PDH's success. Strategies include using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, notably V-based catalysts on supports like SiO2, ZrO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, offer a viable alternative. VOX/MCM-41, in particular, exhibits stable catalytic properties in PDH without gas-phase O2, can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, and highlights its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve activity and reduce side reactions, making them cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a vital alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites boosting propene yield. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and boosting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for tackling deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, aligning with industrial needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. These strategies include single-atom catalysis, alloying, and support modifications to inhibit deactivation. Understanding the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms remains a challenge, as does the impact of particle size on the fraction of active sites and the role of Pt valence states in reactivity. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals show higher propylene selectivity. Modifying supports and metals can prevent sintering and reduce coke formation, crucial for improving catalyst performance and optimizing regeneration. Cofeeding H2 and CO2 can positively affect coke elimination. Efforts to inhibit sintering and re-disperse nanoparticles during dehydrogenation and regeneration are ongoing, with strong metal-support interaction and confinement situations being key areas of focus.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and catalyst deactivation challenges. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5), is a viable alternative, with O2 and CO2 as oxidizing agents. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition (Quote 12). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for meeting growing propylene demand, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts enhance PDH efficiency and selectivity, addressing stability and recyclability issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional oil-based cracking limitations, nonoxidative PDH techniques emerge as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key challenges in the technique.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    