Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address challenges in propylene production by enhancing stability and recyclability. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts synthesized via the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) show improved performance with optimized crystallization temperatures. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coking and enhances catalytic performance. VOx/SiO2 catalysts with moderate vanadium doping exhibit high propene yields and stable selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) display superior performance in both ODH-O2 and DDH reactions. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. The most active catalysts achieve STYs of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, while others exhibit STYs ranging from 3.4 to 64 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, depending on the support, loading, and preparation method. These strategies aim to optimize the relative proportion and stability of active V species, leading to more efficient and stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, tackle toxicity and environmental issues of Cr and Pt catalysts. These catalysts, with defective OH groups playing a key role, achieve three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, providing an environmentally compatible solution to PDH challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. However, PDH faces challenges with temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity, leading to decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Achieving high propene yields remains a challenge, particularly over VOx catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques are advancing. Traditional PDH catalysts, though effective, are expensive, rare, and susceptible to deactivation, leading to higher energy use. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), are being developed to address these issues. This novel approach not only reduces energy consumption but also enables high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, addressing cost, scarcity, and stability concerns of traditional catalysts while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to improve stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, involving reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form vacancies refilled by O2 or CO2. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, added oxidants react with H2, releasing heat, but higher selectivity requires lower temperatures. Understanding complex reaction mechanisms and managing side reactions remain challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2, effectively addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits superior PDH performance with high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques, particularly using supported vanadium oxides, offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage, are being developed to suppress coke deposition, a major cause of catalyst deactivation. This enhances stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing the challenges of increasing demand and traditional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues. These tailored catalysts promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and maintain activity at high temperatures, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids, are emerging as a promising alternative. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in PDH reactions. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. on V-based catalysts supported on γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, respectively, reveal high activity and stability, with the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst fully recovering after oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlight the correlation between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, underscoring the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate remarkable long-term stability, maintaining high propene selectivity over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability. Innovative strategies to mitigate coke formation include adding reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network, aiming to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements are cost-effective, toxicity-free, and crucial for industrial propylene production, addressing the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as an alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH efficiency. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly influence propene yield, with dealumination impacting catalytic properties. SiBeta zeolites, with low acidity, boost propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Ongoing development focuses on innovative catalyst design to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include optimizing the fraction of under-coordinated atoms on catalyst surfaces, which increase as particle size decreases, to improve propylene production while minimizing side reactions that lead to catalyst deactivation. Understanding the role of Pt geometric sites and electronic states is crucial for controlling propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Strategies also focus on inhibiting deactivation through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation, which is the primary cause of catalyst deactivation. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance requires an understanding of deactivation mechanisms and the development of strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as the use of specific reaction ensembles and the tuning of support properties. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, where Pt atoms are bonded onto CeO2 via the combination of [Pt2+O4] single atoms, demonstrating the effectiveness of innovative design strategies in enhancing PDH catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Key catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, as literature highlights.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, lacking the performance of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, optimizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, leveraging the favorable price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue and supporting the evolution of PDH as a promising propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer alternatives for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg addition for anti-coking, enhance stability. CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts, using Cr or Pt, face toxicity and ecological harm issues. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment above 550C, facilitated by defective OH groups. This new catalyst, ZnOsilicalite-1, outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency, but higher temperatures can decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are crucial. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to reduce energy consumption through lower-temperature PDH methods. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts has been developed, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts due to poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping and carrier modification, enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative PDH, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form vacancies, refilled by O2 or CO2, overcoming thermodynamic limitations and improving selectivity at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhance activity and selectivity. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, thereby improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. Specifically, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as per Quote [5], demonstrating its exceptional stability and potential for recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, particularly VOx/γ-Al2O3, are promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the catalyst's surface structure under reaction conditions to mitigate deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts notably suppress coke deposition, crucial for maintaining performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and long-term activity loss, are crucial for PDH's success. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides enhance coking resistance. Optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, addressing efficient PDH process needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence, particularly through advancements in catalyst design. V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 have shown superior catalytic properties, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability and recyclability in PDH processes, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. highlight the high activity and stability of V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, underscoring their potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers platinum (Pt) catalyst performance and stability. Innovative strategies to mitigate deactivation include the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane while addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, such as ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions. They are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as an alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high dispersion of chromium species, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly influencing propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods highlight PDH techniques as a viable alternative. PDH tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation and sintering, poses a significant challenge to PDH efficiency. Innovative design strategies, such as alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, are being developed to enhance stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. These strategies aim to increase selectivity and recyclability in PDH processes, optimizing efficiency. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, albeit with a trade-off in dehydrogenation activity. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms is crucial for the design of more stable Pt-based catalysts, as noted in the quote, 'Insights into the deactivation mechanisms can further help design more stable Pt-based catalysts.'", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations and rising demand. Innovative catalyst design is crucial for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are critical for meeting rising industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Despite progress with PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues, primarily due to coke deposition, persist, highlighting the need for further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising, with O2 and CO2 as leading oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, being milder, results in less heat formation and may increase coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal. Alternative solutions, like solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, show potential but require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional oil-based cracking limitations, nonoxidative PDH techniques emerge as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price variance between propane and propylene. Despite thermally induced catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies, including active site regulation and support modification, significantly enhance stability and recyclability, addressing key industry needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like the cationanion double hydrolysis for Al2O3 synthesis, P and Mg modification of VOx/Al2O3, and co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. Preparation methods significantly influence the performance of V-based catalysts, with the most active exhibiting STYs 34 times less than Pt catalysts. Crystallization temperature, P and Mg modification, and co-assembly techniques improve catalytic performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing limitations of toxic Cr and environmentally harmful Pt catalysts. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts are developed, overcoming these challenges. Supported ZnOx species, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, exhibit three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, marking a significant advancement in PDH technology, as evidenced by comparative testing with commercial KCrOx/Al2O3.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high surface area, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, suffering from coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption. To address these issues, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed, offering a low-temperature PDH method that reduces energy consumption and opens a new route for efficient propane utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Researchers are developing innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to improve catalyst performance by balancing activity and selectivity, reducing byproduct formation, and overcoming deactivation issues. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies, is crucial in oxidative PDH, but requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. Understanding and addressing these challenges is essential for the advancement of PDH as a viable propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address limitations in traditional propylene production. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with smaller crystallite sizes and monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance, making it a promising alternative in the context of increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, exemplified by CoOx@NC/S-1, boosts catalytic performance, achieving 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on surface structure and hydroxyl group control to overcome deactivation issues. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably enhance stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, thus improving performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques, employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, effectively address catalyst deactivation by minimizing coke formation. Strategies include using promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides to enhance robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size improve stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial viability amidst growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, notably the use of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous materials like silica, γ-Al2O3, ZrO2, and Al2O3, tackle catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. underscore the superior properties of V-based catalysts in PDH, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery post-regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirm the link between VOX species and deactivation, validating V-based catalysts for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit notable long-term stability over eight cycles, with propane conversion and propene selectivity demonstrating the catalyst's efficacy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge to performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including cofeeding hydrogen with propane (Quote 6), alloying platinum with metals like tin (Quote 7), modifying supports (Quote 8), adjusting catalyst size (Quote 9), and investigating single atom catalysts (Quote 10). These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the critical need for efficient propylene production methods (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address catalyst deactivation. These zeolites improve catalytic activity and stability by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand for propylene of 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, prompting the exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), is crucial for meeting escalating demand. Innovative catalyst design, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. The use of such catalysts demonstrates the potential for PDH to address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH is a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address the issue of catalyst deactivation, which is a significant challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and recyclability of PDH catalysts, particularly in the context of oxidative and nonoxidative processes. The focus is on improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Techniques such as alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) are being explored to improve catalyst performance. These approaches not only increase the efficiency of PDH processes but also contribute to the overall sustainability of propylene production in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and growing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, though specific details remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for further research (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, uses O2 or CO2 as oxidants: O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation (Quote 8), while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation (Quote 11). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, requiring frequent catalyst regeneration and addressing toxicity issues for industrial viability (Quote 16, Quote 19).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, as evidenced by improved selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, is gaining prominence, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent efforts have concentrated on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques for propylene production address industrial demand and traditional method limitations through innovative catalyst design. P and Mg modifications enhance stability and recyclability by reducing VOx polymerization and coke formation. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows enhanced performance from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance. Support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution, is crucial for optimal VOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, shows promise. Defective OH groups play a key role in active ZnOx species formation. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, offering a sustainable solution to PDH challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion, creating solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, and developing membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and improve stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, with potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the critical nature of the VOx phase for VOx-based catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have evolved. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This innovative design, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase as the support, opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, effectively reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with promoters and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form vacancies, is crucial in oxidative PDH. However, the reaction products are easily over-oxidized, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Research is exploring single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site ratio control to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods for efficient catalyst screening.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand and production limitations. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase boost activity and propene selectivity. Releasing lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is vital for active site creation, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as demonstrated by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, which achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts on γ-Al2O3 supports are gaining prominence due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence, mitigate deactivation issues, enhancing stability in nonoxidative PDH. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, improving stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies include promoters to resist coking, critical for PDH's commercial success. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, shape, and alloying elements, further boosts stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH using V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3 is emerging as a viable solution. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. highlight the high activity, stability, and recyclability of these catalysts, with Bai et al. noting high performance on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and Sokolov et al. reporting full recovery of VOX/MCM-41 through oxidative regeneration, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes in the evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst surging industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Although PDH is already in use, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the growing demand for propylene. As one of the most important building blocks for the chemical industry, the demands for propene have dramatically increased, making PDH a promising and effective route for massive propylene production. However, the severe impact of coke formation on catalytic performance and stability necessitates effective ways to reduce it. Strategies such as cofeeding reductive gas with propane, alloying Pt with second metals, and controlling supports have been proposed to lessen coke formation. The size of the Pt catalyst also significantly influences reactivity and side reactions in PDH. Interestingly, single Pt atom catalysts reveal a different mechanism when reaching the size limit. Despite these efforts, there is still a lack of an updated and systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts, which is crucial for reactivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with sparse Al sites, promote Zn dispersion, reducing side reactions. Their low cost, toxicity-free nature, and reusability make them ideal for industrial propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a growing demand for propylene, expected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. PDH, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), addresses the limitations of conventional techniques. Innovative catalyst design, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion significantly boosts catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. The presence of CO2 positively impacts propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, demonstrating the effectiveness of PDH in meeting industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability. Literature recognizes the pursuit of these strategies, though specifics are lacking.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH processes, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include modifying supports to decrease acidity and improve thermal stability, alloying metals to alter electronic properties, and employing strong metal-support interactions to stabilize nanoparticles. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms is crucial, as is the role of geometric and electronic structures in coke formation. Alloying with promoters like Cu can elevate energy barriers for side reactions and facilitate propylene desorption, while the addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity. These advancements are crucial for improving the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are essential for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details require further exploration.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, necessitating further research (Quotes 1-4). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising but poses risks of overoxidation with O2 and less heat with CO2 (Quotes 5-14). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution (Quotes 15-20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a critical focus, enhance selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, leverage the price disparity between propane and propylene, emerging as a viable alternative. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through alternative production methods, focusing on catalyst design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalyst properties, with dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offering high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, with the most active V-based catalysts being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital eco-friendly alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and overcoming limitations of oil-based methods. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt have faced toxicity and ecological concerns. A new ZnO-based catalyst, prepared through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, effectively addresses these challenges. This catalyst, with active ZnOx species, exhibits three times higher propene productivity than conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, offering a promising solution for enhanced propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation offer cogeneration potential. VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative design strategies are addressing the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, or detrimental, and prone to coking and cracking. A new method operating at lower temperatures is sought to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have developed a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, or lattice oxygen mechanism, is central to oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. These strategies aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve overall catalyst performance, addressing the thermodynamic and kinetic challenges of PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. ZrO2-based catalysts, particularly in the monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes, overcome deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, making them industrially relevant and cost-efficient.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as demonstrated by spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, significantly enhances catalytic performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity with no deactivation after 10 hours at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are investigated as PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies aim to control surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage on vanadium catalysts, balancing activity and stability, reducing coke formation, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To combat catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, employing promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to resist coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and using alloying elements enhance stability and recyclability, ensuring PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques, particularly V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3, offer enhanced stability and recyclability. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts achieve high activity and stability, with full recovery after oxidative regeneration, making them suitable for commercial PDH processes and addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, however, encounters challenges, notably the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. To address this, innovative strategies are being explored, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) offer insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network, aiding in the development of more stable and recyclable catalysts for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative design strategies, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving activity and stability. These catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites facilitates high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, tackling deactivation issues to boost stability and recyclability in PDH processes, adapting to the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. As demonstrated by Xiong et al., single-atom Pt on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, highlighting the potential of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu can lead to higher propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. The use of reducible metal oxides, such as TiO2, can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively impact coke elimination. The addition of Sn not only inhibits CC bond cleavage and improves selectivity but also allows coke precursors to migrate from active metals to supports, enhancing catalyst stability. Strong metal-support interactions can prevent sintering of metal particles, as demonstrated by the high thermal stability of PtSn clusters on CeO2. The confinement effect provided by supports can prevent sintering and maintain the stability of catalysts during PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH stands as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, directly addressing catalyst challenges in the evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting industrial demand for propylene, especially post-shale gas production, making natural gas a competitive feedstock. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts, while effective, face challenges in noble metal loading, stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, lacking the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2, lacks thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability. Further research is needed to address these challenges and develop effective reaction systems for oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus boosting efficiency and selectivity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, focusing on catalyst design. CADH enhances VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coke, boosting activity. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to higher V3+ proportions. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid sites affecting VOx species. Preparation methods tune active V species proportion and stability. V-based catalysts' performance varies, being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological harm issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, overcomes these limitations. This catalyst, leveraging defective OH groups for active ZnOx species formation, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, making it a promising solution for propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but faces challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome these issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while doped ceria shows promise for this purpose. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed, and proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors could cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in designing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, with issues of coking and cracking, and high energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) addresses these challenges by offering a low-temperature method that reduces energy consumption and opens new routes for efficient propane utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address these limitations, focusing on doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve overall catalyst performance, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing the viability of PDH as a propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address the growing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, to overcome deactivation issues. Particularly, the monoclinic phase with smaller crystallite sizes shows higher activity and selectivity to propene. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites crucial for propane activation, making these catalysts industrially relevant for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH techniques utilizing shale-gas propane emerge as a viable production alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH processes. An innovative active site isolation strategy significantly enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, demonstrates outstanding PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after extended reaction times at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxides, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, mitigate deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, improving nonoxidative PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robustness at high temperatures. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape further boost catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, utilizing V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods. These catalysts avoid thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reduce carbon deposition. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to be stable for PDH without gas-phase O2 and fully recoverable with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, suggesting V-based catalysts as suitable for commercial PDH processes, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, hinders performance (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like Sn (Quote 7), modifying supports (Quote 8), adjusting Pt catalyst size (Quote 9), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (Quote 10). These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH offers a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, traditional production methods struggle, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably CO2-assisted PDH, as a pivotal alternative. Innovative catalysts, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion on SiBeta zeolites, with its low acidity, achieves high propene selectivity. Redox Cr sites significantly influence propene yield, and CO2's presence enhances propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, as demonstrated in switch operation mode.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that are selective for propylene production while minimizing side reactions, the optimization of particle size to balance active site availability and deactivation risk, and the use of supports that can inhibit coke formation and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is essential for the design of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts. Strategies like the use of reducible metal oxides, strong metal-support interactions, and confinement effects in mesoporous materials are being explored to enhance catalyst performance and longevity. These advancements aim to improve the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, making them more viable in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability, aligning with industrial demand and energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, without thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke but introduces overoxidation challenges, while CO2 is milder but less heat-producing. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative amid growing demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. Strategies include CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, which boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst design must consider support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative for propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt-based catalysts have toxicity and ecological drawbacks. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offer environmental compatibility and superior performance. These catalysts, notably ZnOsilicalite-1, achieve three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and improve stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on the membrane type and geometry. The challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical to performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are crucial. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, though effective, are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. Seeking a solution, researchers aim to develop a new PDH method at lower temperatures to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode, has been introduced for the first time. This innovation addresses catalyst deactivation, enhances stability and recyclability, and opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, faces challenges like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity and fast deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for more efficient and sustainable propylene production methods. The MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, is crucial for understanding the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. However, thermodynamic limitations and the need for higher temperatures to activate the CH bond in propane must also be considered.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, emerge as a key solution. These catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably in the monoclinic phase, outperform tetragonal ZrO2, enhancing propene selectivity and activity. Their ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, making them effective in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, are a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, particularly the innovative CoOx@NC/S-1 design with isolated cobalt oxide sites, demonstrate exceptional PDH performance. This catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, known for their activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, which significantly enhance stability by reducing coke deposition and improving recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, with resistance to high temperatures and coking, are crucial for commercial PDH. Strategies involve using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and rare-earth metal oxides to enhance stability and recyclability, optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques using V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed. These catalysts, optimized for PDH, demonstrate superior activity, stability, and recyclability. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable PDH performance and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a viable alternative. As a significant route for propylene production, PDH employs platinum catalysts that face challenges due to coke formation, undermining performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying platinum with metals such as tin (Quote 7), modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts (Quote 10). These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the growing demand for propylene while overcoming the limitations of conventional methods. Computational simulations based on density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into the deactivation mechanism (Quote 11), underscoring the need for an updated and systematic understanding of coke formation on platinum catalysts in PDH (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, converting propane directly to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, making the resulting ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected demand for propylene reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as an alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, specifically the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion significantly boosts catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites are crucial for propene yield, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites favoring high selectivity to propene over propane cracking in AlBeta zeolites. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalyst design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, meeting growing demand amidst traditional production constraints.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also the diversity of exposed atoms, affecting selectivity and stability. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as particle size decreases, impacting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity, but the fundamental active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH are still under investigation. Innovative design strategies are essential to overcome these challenges and advance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's evolution in changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Challenges persist with catalyst deactivation, particularly with alternative metal oxides due to rapid deactivation from coke deposition and regeneration inefficiencies. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced deactivation poses a significant challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows five times higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to higher V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Existing Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions, offers environmental compatibility and higher propene productivity, demonstrating its potential in PDH processes to overcome deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are explored for efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can potentially cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have gained prominence. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, focusing on low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced for the first time, offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures. This development aims to enhance stability and recyclability, overcoming deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts but faces challenges like unsatisfactory selectivity and stability due to high-temperature operations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies tackle deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism and temperature control to improve selectivity. Advanced catalysts, including single-atom catalysts and those with modified acid-base properties, are being developed to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods for better understanding and catalyst screening.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, serving as a major on-purpose production method for propylene, address industrial demand. Innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing activity and selectivity to propene. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase outperform tetragonal ZrO2, crucial for overcoming deactivation and improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. This strategy, as proven, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance, with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after prolonged reaction periods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, particularly VOx/γ-Al2O3, are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, are being explored to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations by converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Key catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, withstanding high temperatures and maintaining long-term activity, are essential. Promoters like late transition and main-group metals, along with optimal metal-support interactions, enhance stability and recyclability against coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence, especially through innovative catalyst design strategies. V-based catalysts, supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, show enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrated superior catalytic properties and stability with V-based catalysts, notably VOX/MCM-41, which exhibits full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. underscored the link between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, advocating V-based catalysts for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintain high propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple cycles in non-oxidative PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, coke formation significantly hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to address this, including hydrogen cofeeding to reduce coke (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, effectively tackling the challenges posed by the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To combat catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being explored, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts. These zeolites enhance catalytic activity and stability by dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions, leading to cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions. They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. For instance, the fraction of active sites increases as metal particles shrink, impacting dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms. Pt-based catalysts, with their role in dehydrogenation, are being optimized to balance activity and selectivity, with a focus on inhibiting side reactions that lead to deactivation. The design of catalytic systems with enhanced performance is crucial, and strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms is essential for the development of more stable catalysts, and the inhibition of deactivation is a key requirement for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production alternative, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as literature highlights.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative metal oxide catalysts, despite attention, face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity and reaction rate issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and evolving energy landscapes, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a competitive alternative to traditional oil-based cracking, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally-induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation and support modification, aim to boost stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer alternatives for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Catalyst design strategies, including CADH for mesoporous Al2O3 synthesis, boost VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, notably V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows five times higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to the reduction of VO bonds, yielding active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is critical, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can adjust the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts, however, are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and ecological drawbacks. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst preparation method overcomes these issues, forming supported ZnOx species at high temperatures. This new catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making it a promising solution for industrial needs.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements and enhancing efficiency. Catalyst deactivation challenges are being tackled through innovative design strategies to improve stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors could cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these challenges, a novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed. This innovation, which operates at lower temperatures, reduces energy consumption and opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources, addressing the need for sustainable and efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face issues of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms, creating and refilling oxygen vacancies. These strategies address deactivation challenges in PDH processes, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address limitations in traditional propylene production. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with smaller crystallite sizes and monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability by creating active sites through lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment, optimizing performance in oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, is a viable propylene production method. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Notably, spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) achieved 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques, particularly using supported vanadium oxides, emerge as a viable alternative. These catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and regeneration potential. Innovative design strategies, focusing on surface-bound hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group presence on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts mitigates deactivation issues, improving nonoxidative PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. These strategies promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and withstand high temperatures. Promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides increase coking resistance, while optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size and shape improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalysts, notably V-based on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, particularly mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, are developed to tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al.'s studies underscore the superior properties of V-based catalysts, with VOX/MCM-41 exhibiting full recovery through oxidative regeneration and sustaining high propene selectivity over multiple cycles, addressing the challenges in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale production (Quote 2). However, coke formation significantly hampers catalyst performance (Quote 3). Innovative strategies, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6) and alloying platinum with metals such as tin (Quote 7), are being developed to mitigate coke formation, aiming to improve catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes. There is a need for an updated and systematic approach to understanding coke formation on Pt catalysts (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, converting propane directly to propylene, address industrial demand while avoiding steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as ZnO clusters supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, enhances stability and recyclability. These low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable catalysts are promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are crucial. Innovative chromium-containing Beta zeolites serve as effective catalysts, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a pivotal role. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield, demonstrating the effectiveness of these strategies in meeting industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, critical for evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), are being developed to address catalyst deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. The primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to decreased catalytic activity (Quote 26). Separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity (Quote 50). Alloying with diverse promoters can modulate the surface electronic structure, impacting the reactivity and selectivity of the catalyst (Quote 60). These strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH is emerging as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as highlighted in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, focusing on catalyst design to overcome deactivation. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability. Innovative strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for the evolution of PDH as a competitive alternative.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts demonstrate improved selectivity and efficiency in PDH reactions, addressing key issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, thereby meeting growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are addressing industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 shows that crystallization temperature affects catalytic performance by influencing surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability. Innovative techniques, like direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, enhance V5+ species interaction with silica, boosting activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 are promising supports, with VOx/ZrO2 exhibiting higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. The nature of the support is crucial in catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species, with significant performance variation among V-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, offering an eco-friendly solution to oil-based cracking. Traditional PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration issues. An innovative method for preparing ZnO-based catalysts addresses these challenges, forming ZnOx species through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures. The new ZnO-based catalyst, ZnOsilicalite-1, outperforms a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, showing three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions while maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Challenges arise as alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and doped ceria shows promise for this purpose. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially co-producing alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these challenges, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges such as unsatisfactory propylene selectivity and fast deactivation, particularly with Pt-based catalysts. Innovative strategies, including the addition of late transition metals as promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies, is central to oxidative PDH, which requires careful temperature control for selectivity. Research is exploring single-atom catalysts, adjusting acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen site ratios on catalyst surfaces to overcome deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized ZrO2-based catalysts, through phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites, crucial for PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane, address the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant on Earth, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A synthesized catalyst (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrated 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides serve as effective PDH catalysts, with hydroxyl groups playing a pivotal role in suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By managing hydroxyl group coverage, a balance between activity and stability is achieved, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by minimizing coke formation and enhancing stability. Promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides bolster resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape are crucial for improving catalyst stability and recyclability, ensuring PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable solution. Addressing catalyst deactivation, VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, optimized through gelation and calcination temperatures, showcase high activity, stability, and recyclability. Notably, VOX-SiO2 maintains 91% propene selectivity over eight cycles, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, an established industrial process, encounters challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to tackle these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the increasing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable solution for growing propylene demand, offering an alternative to steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts improve activity, reduce side reactions, and are reusable, making them cost-effective and non-toxic for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a key solution, with innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH modes with and without CO2 demonstrates the positive impact of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, highlighting the role of acidity in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. For instance, the fraction of active sites increases as metal particles shrink, but this also diversifies the local environments of exposed atoms, impacting selectivity and stability. Pt-based catalysts, while effective, face challenges from side reactions that lead to deactivation, necessitating the development of design strategies that enhance propylene selectivity and inhibit deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH is a viable alternative, focusing on innovative catalyst design to tackle deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, with PtSn and CrOx catalysts enabling continuous operation. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, shows promise. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, particularly focusing on vanadium oxide catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements improve selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes, as evidenced by their kinetics in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing the catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, including CADH for Al2O3 synthesis, P and Mg modifications for VOx/Al2O3, and co-assembly for V/SiO2. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits high activity due to the reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. Preparation methods and support materials significantly impact catalytic performance, with the most active V-based catalysts showing STYs 3-4 times less than Pt catalysts. Crystallization temperature affects the distribution of surface V species, P modification decreases VOx polymerization, and Mg modification reduces coke deposits, all improving catalyst stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these issues with environmental compatibility and demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional alternatives, as evidenced in testing under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Challenges arise as alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts' nature is critical for performance, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing the limitations of Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts, which are costly, scarce, or detrimental and prone to coking and cracking, researchers have innovated a CoSn/NC catalyst for microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This non-precious catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, operates at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and offering a new avenue for efficient propane utilization. The carbon nitride phase serves as a support, enhancing the catalyst's stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a promising alternative. PDH, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts due to poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, crucial in oxidative PDH, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, leading to oxygen vacancies and a catalytic cycle. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, releasing heat, requiring careful temperature control for high selectivity. Research focuses on developing catalysts with improved performance through single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modification, and oxygen site ratio control.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a high propene selectivity alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, these catalysts can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation, thus improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, are a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as per Quote [3], significantly enhances catalytic performance. This strategy was applied to synthesize a cobalt oxide catalyst supported on nitrogen-doped carbon and silicalite-1 zeolite, as per Quote [5], resulting in exceptional PDH performance and stability, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly those utilizing supported vanadium oxides, are emerging as promising alternatives. These catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts have been shown to suppress coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, significantly improving catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to optimize selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation, crucial for commercial PDH technologies. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and long-term activity, are essential, with additional promoters increasing coking resistance. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape further improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH using V-based catalysts on mesoporous silica solids offers a viable solution. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, tailored for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior activity and stability. VOX/MCM-41, supported on Al2O3 and MCM-41, demonstrates high activity and stability in PDH, with full recovery post-oxidative regeneration. The VOX-SiO2 catalyst maintains long-term stability through eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually declining from 55% to 45% over 4 hours, while propene selectivity remains at 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation due to coke formation, undermining performance and stability (Quote 3). Strategies to mitigate this include reductive gas cofeeding (Quote 6), Pt alloying with metals like Sn (Quote 7), support modification (Quote 8), adjusting Pt size (Quote 9), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (Quote 10). These innovations aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and production challenges (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity and stability due to zeolite's properties, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), emerges as a promising solution. Innovative catalyst design, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing PDH stability. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation on Beta zeolites, known for their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, yields superior CO2-assisted PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites, like Cr(III)/Cr(II), are pivotal in the oxidative pathway, directly impacting propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with SiBeta's low acidity promoting high propene selectivity, while AlBeta's high acidity favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH stands as a promising alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms, and optimizing particle size to balance activity and stability. The use of bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports and metals are among the methods being explored to inhibit deactivation. For instance, the interaction between Pt and Cu can elevate the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitate propylene desorption, improving selectivity. Additionally, the introduction of metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, reflecting the evolution of PDH techniques in response to global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Catalysts like PtSn and CrOx face deactivation issues, mainly due to coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Innovative design strategies are essential for stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 prevents coke formation but poses overoxidation risks, while CO2 is milder but less heat-producing. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternatives, requiring catalyst regeneration and facing toxicity issues. Further research is crucial to optimize these processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation issues through innovative design strategies, such as supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg modification for enhanced anti-coking capability, significantly improve stability and recyclability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 show improved performance due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considerations, such as the nature of the support, affect metal-support interactions and the formation of acid sites for VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts. Studies show that varying preparation methods and support types can greatly influence the structure, activity, and stability of PDH catalysts, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts, however, face toxicity and environmental concerns. An innovative method now creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, which form active ZnOx species at high temperatures. These catalysts outperform commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, showing three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making them a promising solution to enhance PDH efficiency and tackle catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria improves selectivity, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques are addressing challenges. Conventional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. A new low-temperature PDH method is sought to reduce energy use. Innovations include the CoSn/NC catalyst for microwave catalytic reaction mode, offering a novel microwave catalyst for direct propane dehydrogenation, opening a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, though active, struggle with poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, characteristic of oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies. Adding an oxidant addresses thermodynamic limitations by reacting with hydrogen to produce water and release heat, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. The activation of the CH bond in propane, a rate-determining step, requires higher temperatures. These strategies, including single-atom catalysts and oxygen site ratio control, balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2 with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zrcus sites, vital for propane activation, making PDH a promising alternative in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy significantly boosts catalytic performance. Specifically, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, achieves exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxide catalysts, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies aim to control the surface structure of these catalysts, notably by managing surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition and enhance stability in nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies promote selective dehydrogenation, reduce coke formation, and ensure robust catalyst performance at high temperatures, crucial for commercial viability in changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica, Al2O3, and MCM-41, enhances stability and recyclability in PDH. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior activity and stability. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to maintain stable PDH performance and fully recover with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. attributed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 to the stability of VOX species, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH, with VOX-SiO2 catalysts showing notable stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, Pt catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge to PDH's performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to tackle these issues, including the addition of hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals like tin for added benefits, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring the chemical industry's demands are met and adapting to the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative by directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions. Small ZnO clusters, produced under precise conditions, serve as active phases. The resulting catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, especially CO2-PDH, are gaining prominence as alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of acidity on PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable solution, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as highlighted in the quote: 'Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that bolster stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing the issue of catalyst deactivation, which significantly impacts the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability of PDH catalysts by improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions are among the approaches being developed to overcome deactivation challenges and improve the overall efficiency of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is essential for the design of more stable and selective PDH catalysts. The fraction of active sites and their local environments play a critical role in the PDH process, influencing the selectivity and stability of the catalysts. Innovative design strategies, such as the use of geometric models and electronic states, can significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, leading to higher propylene selectivity and lower dehydrogenation activity. The challenge of catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, can be mitigated through the design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation, with a focus on modifying supports, metals, and treatments. The modification of supports, such as alumina, with alkaline promoters and the addition of reducible metal oxides, can decrease acidity and improve the dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, enhancing stability and anti-coking capability. Changes in reaction conditions, such as the cofeeding of H2 and CO2, can also positively affect coke elimination and maintain catalyst stability. The confinement situation offered by supports can provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals and exert spatial constraints to prevent sintering. The use of mesoporous materials and zeolites as supports can confine metal nanoparticles inside, preventing severe sintering during reduction operations. Regeneration of catalysts under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts, although continuous regeneration may not entirely restore catalytic performance due to structural transformation and eventual loss of activity and selectivity in consecutive cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke deposition, requiring research for viable regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production methods highlight the viability of PDH techniques. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing propylene demand and the constraints of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is a promising alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent efforts concentrate on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, tackling the deactivation issue effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    