Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address challenges in propylene production by enhancing stability and recyclability. Mesoporous Al2O3 supports synthesized via the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) influence VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance, with crystallization temperature affecting surface V species distribution. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability, while Mg modification reduces coke formation and enhances catalytic performance. The V/SiO2 catalyst (1:12 mass ratio) achieves superior propene yield and selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high initial propane conversion and propene selectivity, with direct co-assembly enhancing V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species. Preparation methods and synthesis strategies are crucial for forming well-defined support structures and active sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Existing Cr and Pt catalysts have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment above 550C, addresses these issues. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. This new catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, making it a promising solution for industrial demand and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency. However, challenges include decreased alkene selectivity with temperature increases due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and doped ceria shows promise for this purpose. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially co-producing alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Catalyst design focuses on overcoming decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, with the nature of the VOx phase being critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, innovative design strategies are being developed. A new PDH method at lower temperatures is desired to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have developed a novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This method opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, overcoming the challenges of coking and cracking while reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative PDH, necessitating lower temperatures for selectivity. Single-atom catalysts, acid-base property adjustments, and oxygen site ratio control are explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts. Computational methods support catalyst development by elucidating structure-reactivity relationships and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand by converting abundant shale-gas propane into propene, a vital commodity chemical. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. Tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface can balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies involve the use of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and incorporating alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In the context of growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. Studies, such as the optimization of VOX-SiO2 catalysts at various gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, beneficial for industrial development. V-based catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, exhibit attractive catalytic properties for PDH, with mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts achieving high activity and stability. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts show stability in PDH without gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as suitable candidates for commercial PDH processes, overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH's industrial implementation is marred by coke formation, which hampers platinum catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate this, including hydrogen cofeeding, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their improved catalytic activity and reduced side reactions, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are proving insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes are gaining importance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield, with low acidity of SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity of AlBeta promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to boost stability and recyclability. These advancements are pivotal in meeting demand and navigating global energy shifts, though specific design details remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a propylene production method addresses industrial demand and production limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. These strategies target the improvement of selectivity and stability, reduction of coke formation, and prevention of metal nanoparticle sintering, crucial for enhancing PDH efficiency and recyclability. Challenges include understanding active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms, with smaller particles increasing active sites but also diverse local environments that can lead to deactivation. Strategies like modifying supports, metals, and treatments have been shown to inhibit deactivation, with a focus on reducing coke formation and managing catalyst regeneration. Understanding deactivation mechanisms is essential for designing more stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Ongoing research develops innovative catalyst design strategies to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain under investigation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow for competitive, continuous operation, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, hindering full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored as a solution. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures, but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues. Further research is essential to resolve these challenges and enhance PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation issue effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with facile reduction of VO bonds, produce active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a crucial alternative to oil-based propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts have limitations due to toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst preparation method has been developed, forming ZnOx species through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, showcasing its environmental compatibility and enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Membrane reactors with high surface area improve efficiency, while the nature of the VOx phase is critical for high alkene selectivity. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored for lower-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been developed for the first time. This non-precious catalyst opens new avenues for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, focusing on doping with promoters like late transition metals and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving lattice oxygen, is crucial in oxidative PDH, where temperature control is essential for selectivity. Single-atom catalysts (SACs) with defined structures, modification of acid-base properties, and control of oxygen sites are explored to improve activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, with monoclinic ZrO2 outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating environmentally friendly and cost-efficient solutions for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and limitations of traditional methods by converting abundant propane from shale-gas deposits. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their performance and earth's abundance, are being developed. An innovative design strategy, active site isolation, enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers supported on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) have been synthesized, resulting in exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques provide an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, leading to better catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. These strategies incorporate promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to boost robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements further refine catalyst performance, ensuring commercial viability and longevity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures have shown superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibited stable catalytic properties and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. also noted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, indicating V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for enhanced stability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. The zeolite's structure and acidity help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, with small ZnO clusters connected to the framework acting as active phases. These catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion enhances catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are pivotal in the oxidative pathway. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, addressing key challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being tackled through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and the use of supports that promote stability and prevent agglomeration of metal nanoparticles. For instance, alloying with promoters like Cu can elevate the energy barrier for side reactions and facilitate propylene desorption, while the addition of reducible oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Moreover, modifying supports with alkaline promoters and incorporating metal oxides can decrease acidity, modulate dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, and enhance anti-coking capability. Adjusting reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also reduce coke formation and improve catalyst performance. These design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternative solutions but require catalyst regeneration and have toxicity issues. Innovative strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by their improved selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. A critical challenge, thermally induced deactivation, has spurred advancements in catalyst design. Strategies now focus on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improving catalytic stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of oil-based cracking. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative method introduces environmentally compatible ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment above 550C, facilitated by defective OH groups. The developed ZnOsilicalite-1 catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for high alkene selectivity in VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalysts for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalyst, CoSn/NC, has been introduced for the first time, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, opens new possibilities for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. However, Pt-based catalysts face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies include the use of single-atom catalysts, alkali metal additives to modify acid-base properties, and control of oxygen sites ratio for balanced activity and selectivity. Metal-oxide interfaces and oxygen activity tuning are explored to minimize byproducts and improve selectivity. Computational methods support catalyst development by elucidating structure-reactivity relationships and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key solution, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, show improved activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for creating active sites upon reductive treatment. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior performance, making them environmentally friendly and cost-efficient alternatives for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly boosts catalytic performance. Synthesized cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrate exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Strategies like using additional promoters and optimizing metal-support interactions improve robustness against coking and maintain activity at high temperatures, crucial for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable PDH performance without gas-phase O2 and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, indicating V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques have emerged as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being developed, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, serve as supports for ZnO catalysts, improving catalytic activity and stability. The small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework are active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. These catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their high thermal and acid stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high propene selectivity and high acidity promoting propane cracking. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive impact on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, addressing key challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, improve stability, and enhance recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to increase selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. For instance, the fraction of active sites increases as metal particles shrink, impacting dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms. Pt-based catalysts, with their active sites and dehydrogenation mechanisms, are crucial in PDH, where the coordination structure and electronic states significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. These strategies are pivotal in optimizing PDH techniques for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, deactivation issues persist, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery post-regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative, utilizing O2 and CO2 as oxidants. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, though they require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Further research is essential to resolve these issues and enhance PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts have shown promise in enhancing selectivity and efficiency, making PDH a promising solution in the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have issues with toxicity and regeneration. A new method uses ZnO to create environmentally friendly catalysts, with ZnOx species formed through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in this process. The ZnO-based catalyst outperforms commercial alternatives, showing triple the propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PDH can lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, enhancing efficiency. Catalyst deactivation challenges are being tackled through innovative design strategies, including supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux at dehydrogenation temperatures, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, with the VOx phase's nature critical to catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking. These catalysts also have high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach uses a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This catalyst design, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin acts as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, is a promising solution to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site control to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a major on-purpose propene production process. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These environmentally friendly and cost-efficient catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are developed for PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) are synthesized, achieving high propane conversion to propene with >97% selectivity and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing catalyst performance and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and incorporating alloying elements are also crucial for developing robust catalysts that maintain activity at high temperatures over extended periods, ensuring the commercial success of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, focusing on innovative catalyst design to enhance stability and recyclability. V-based catalysts, particularly VOX/MCM-41, have shown superior catalytic properties and stability in PDH reactions, as demonstrated by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. The latter also found that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, attributing this to the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. further highlighted the relationship between catalyst deactivation and VOX species in VOX/MCM-41, reinforcing its suitability for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with tailored gelation and calcination temperatures, have exhibited remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles for PDH, as evidenced by the slow decrease in propane conversion and consistent propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the pressing need for propylene in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, making the ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, are emerging as promising solutions. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance in CO2-PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation has proven effective, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. However, specific details on these strategies remain underdeveloped, indicating a need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent the sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. As highlighted, the fraction of active sites increases with smaller particle sizes, impacting the deactivation mechanisms. Pt-based catalysts, with their geometric and electronic structures, play a crucial role in PDH, influencing propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation is essential for enhanced performance, with strategies focusing on support modification, metal properties, and treatment methods. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms and developing effective strategies are critical for advancing PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through cutting-edge design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. These advancements are pivotal in meeting demand and navigating the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow continuous operation, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Further research aims to improve catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the critical issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg modification for anti-coking capability, enhance stability and performance. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 and direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts improve interaction and dispersion of V species. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity due to the reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. Catalyst performance is influenced by the nature of the support and the preparation method, affecting the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts by a factor of 34.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst, as evidenced by quote [3], demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, as highlighted in quote [7].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer cogeneration potential. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, with the VOx phase critical to catalyst performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms, and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, the direct propane dehydrogenation reaction consumes more energy under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for PDH processes at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts as microwave catalysts under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, offering a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures. This development addresses the need for catalysts that are more stable, less prone to deactivation, and recyclable, particularly in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. To address these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed. These include the use of single-atom catalysts (SACs) with precise local structures to establish structure-reactivity relationships, modifying catalysts' acid-base properties through alkali metal additives, and controlling the ratio of oxygen sites on the catalyst surface to balance activity and selectivity. Additionally, metal-oxide interfaces and the tuning of oxygen activity on oxides are explored to minimize byproduct formation and enhance selectivity. Computational methods, such as density functional theory (DFT) calculations and microkinetic modeling, support the development of these catalysts by elucidating the effects of geometrical and electronic structures on C-H bond activation and screening potential catalyst candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal in meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, crucial for creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. These advancements in catalyst design improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. The synthesis of spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) showcases exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies aim to control the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, focusing on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining long-term activity, are vital for commercial success. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve using additional promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, improving metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and employing alloying elements.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. PDH processes, both oxidative and non-oxidative, are being optimized to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids, are being explored. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, when prepared at optimized gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies show that V-based catalysts supported on various materials, including SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, exhibit attractive catalytic properties for PDH, with high activity and stability. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, in particular, show full recovery with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species, making V-based catalysts a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework are active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes are gaining importance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion produces effective CO2-assisted PDH catalysts. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 shows a positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta, but a negative effect over AlBeta.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. A major challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which can be caused by side reactions leading to the formation of coke (Quote 4). Innovative design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the use of alloying and dealloying to modify the electronic properties of the catalysts, single atom catalysis to maximize active sites while minimizing side reactions, and the incorporation of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and enhance stability (Quote 50). These strategies aim to improve the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, reduce coke formation, and prevent the aggregation of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes (Quote 90).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. However, detailed strategies remain underdeveloped in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, with activity unrecoverable by regeneration (Quote 2, 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored as a solution (Quote 5). O2 and CO2 are investigated oxidants; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation (Quote 6, 9), while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke (Quote 15). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but they require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity (Quote 20). Further research is essential to address these issues and improve PDH processes (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers an alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighted in literature, improve PDH efficiency and selectivity, addressing stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a promising alternative, leveraging the price advantage of propane. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent advancements focus on improving catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve stability and performance. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species proportions. Support nature is crucial for catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face issues due to Cr(VI) toxicity and ecologically harmful chlorine for regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these challenges. Defective OH groups play a crucial role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under CRM. To tackle these challenges, innovative design strategies aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods for energy savings. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM is introduced, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin promotes stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, opens opportunities for high-value C3H8 resources utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face issues like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, leveraging the MVK mechanism for oxidative dehydrogenation. Computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling are employed to understand catalyst performance and screen potential candidates, focusing on single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen activity tuning to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable solution, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites crucial for propane activation, addressing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging the abundance of propane from shale-gas, offer a solution to the growing demand for propylene and the shortcomings of conventional production methods. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly boosts catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits outstanding PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration. Innovative design strategies focus on surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major deactivation cause. By tuning hydroxyl group coverage, activity and stability can be balanced, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative strategies are developed, focusing on stability and recyclability. These include employing promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to resist coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and using alloying elements are also crucial for enhancing catalyst robustness and longevity, ensuring commercial viability in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. Innovative design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address catalyst deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized through gelation and calcination temperatures, have shown superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability, making V-based catalysts a suitable candidate for commercial PDH processes. For instance, VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit high stability and full recovery with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. These findings highlight the potential of optimized V-based catalysts in overcoming deactivation issues and improving the efficiency of PDH techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH is already industrially exploited, but catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, remains a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, including the use of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a direct conversion process, bypassing steam cracking. Key challenges, particularly catalyst deactivation, are being addressed through innovative design strategies. Notably, high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites support ZnO catalysts, enhancing activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, facilitate Zn species dispersion and reduce side reactions. Active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, with innovative catalyst design strategies addressing deactivation issues. Chromium-containing Beta zeolites, characterized by high dispersion and redox chromium species, are crucial for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, demonstrating the impact of acidity on selectivity and propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, a critical challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, focusing on the design of active sites, understanding deactivation mechanisms, and the role of metal states in reactivity. For instance, the coordination of metal atoms can significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Moreover, the selectivity of Pt-based catalysts can be improved by controlling the electronic states of the metal atoms. Deactivation, often caused by coke formation, can be inhibited through the design of specific reaction ensembles and by tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility. Strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, modification of supports, and changes in reaction conditions. The design of catalytic systems with enhanced performance requires a deep understanding of deactivation mechanisms and the development of effective inhibition methods. These advancements in PDH catalyst design are crucial for meeting the increasing demand for propylene while improving the efficiency and sustainability of production processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal in meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods with limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, enabling continuous operation, challenges remain in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2, eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperature, introduces overoxidation challenges. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking methods, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent advancements focus on design strategies to improve stability and recyclability, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the core issue of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, like the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows superior performance, attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Support nature is crucial in catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face challenges due to Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine requirements for regeneration. An innovative method uses commercial ZnO to create environmentally friendly supported catalysts. ZnOx species form in situ through OH group reactions with Zn atoms at high temperatures. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx. The new ZnO-based catalyst, ZnOsilicalite-1, outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand for propylene. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency. However, challenges arise as alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, and the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux at dehydrogenation temperatures is crucial. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored for improved efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being designed for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially enabling cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking issues. Moreover, the direct propane dehydrogenation reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH processes that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave-assisted PDH method using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst. This development opens a new route for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, addressing the need for sustainable and cost-effective propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving oxygen vacancies and temperature-sensitive selectivity, is central to oxidative PDH. These advancements, supported by computational methods, strive to optimize catalysts for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation challenges by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, show industrially relevant activity and selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are key, with active site isolation enhancing performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized for spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, which can improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups, it's possible to balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the use of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and alkali-metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. V-based catalysts, notably VOX-SiO2 optimized at specific gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability. Studies show that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit high stability for PDH in the absence of gas-phase O2, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. These findings underscore the significance of optimized V-based catalysts in overcoming deactivation challenges and improving the efficiency of PDH techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key alternative, offering large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, notably coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations, based on density functional theory (DFT), provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network, aiding in catalyst design and stability enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. Supported on high-silica HZSM-5, ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable solution, complementing steam cracking and catalytic cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies aimed at boosting stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Specific design details are not elaborated, underscoring ongoing research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address the challenges of catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in propylene production. Strategies include alloying to modulate surface electronic structure, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions to prevent sintering. These approaches aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and maintain catalytic performance through regeneration cycles. Understanding and manipulating active sites, deactivation mechanisms, and particle size are crucial for developing efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing deactivation issues in response to growing industrial demand and evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, challenges remain in deactivation, stability, and recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is promising; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but they require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates. Resolving these issues is crucial for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, targeting stability and recyclability, have been made, focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase has shown that crystallization temperature influences catalytic performance by affecting the distribution of surface V species. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, such as vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), exhibit high catalytic activity and stability due to the direct co-assembly process that enhances V5+ species interaction with the silica support. Gelation and calcination temperatures also impact VOx/SiO2 catalyst performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considerations include the nature of the support, metal-support interactions, and the influence of acid sites on surface VOx species. The relative proportion and stability of the most active V species can be tuned by varying preparation methods. The performance of V-based catalysts varies significantly, with the most active exhibiting STYs that are less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of oil-based processes. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt suffer from toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, offers an environmentally friendly solution. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to conventional catalysts, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. These techniques lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges due to temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity issues. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. The design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, is also being explored. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, innovative methods are being developed. A new low-temperature PDH process under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) is desired to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have developed a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst for PDH, which opens a new route for utilizing abundant propane resources at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, enhances stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group elements, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements aim to address the limitations of conventional propylene production methods and meet the increasing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting the growing demand for propylene, leveraging the abundance of propane from shale-gas deposits. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH processes. An innovative design strategy, active site isolation, enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as promising catalysts for PDH, boasting high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies focus on understanding the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By controlling the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface, it is possible to balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Techniques include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids, such as SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, with VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrating high stability and recyclability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles. These catalysts, particularly VOX/MCM-41, exhibit full recovery with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species, making V-based catalysts a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts with optimized gelation and calcination temperatures reveal remarkable long-term catalytic stability, with propane conversion showing a slow decrease from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at approximately 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) offer insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, enable the production of active ZnO clusters, enhancing performance and recyclability. Their low cost, toxicity-free nature, and reusability make them promising for industrial propylene production, aligning with changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are proving insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), are emerging as critical alternatives. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion has shown promise in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites facilitates high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals the superior performance of Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, though specific details of these strategies are not provided.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to enhance selectivity, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and promote redispersion of metal nanoparticles. Understanding and addressing the mechanisms of catalyst deactivation, such as coke formation and sintering, is essential for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Specific design details remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, allowing continuous operation for years, challenges remain in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, VOx have been explored but deactivate quickly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being studied for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, boosts stability, and enhances recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the question on how PDH and catalyst advancements meet industrial demands and adapt to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a promising alternative, leveraging the price difference between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, Mg addition for anti-coking properties, and CADH for synthesizing Al2O3 with enhanced Lewis acid sites, improve stability and recyclability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via co-assembly, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows superior performance, attributed to the reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution, crucial for optimal VOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer an environmentally friendly solution. Defective OH groups play a key role in active ZnOx species formation. Tested under industrial conditions, the ZnO-based catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH techniques can lower energy requirements but face challenges with temperature-induced dehydrocyclization and decreased alkene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx catalysts' nature is critical, with challenges in propene selectivity at higher conversions. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Seeking energy-efficient alternatives, researchers are developing low-temperature PDH methods. A novel approach uses a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under MCRM, addressing deactivation issues and reducing energy consumption, thus enabling high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face issues like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, with a focus on the MVK mechanism for oxidative dehydrogenation. Computational methods, including DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling, are utilized to understand catalyst performance and screen potential candidates, supporting the development of more efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, making it a key process for propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, noted for their environmental friendliness and cost-efficiency, show significant activity and olefin selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimization through phase composition and crystallite size is crucial, with the ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creating active sites. Monoclinic ZrO2 with smaller crystallite sizes exhibits superior activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, balancing activity and stability, and enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, including late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods. V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, particularly VOX-SiO2, show superior catalytic properties for PDH, overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. These catalysts, reasonably priced and environmentally friendly, are stable for PDH in the absence of gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, making them suitable for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. While PDH is already in industrial use, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, remains a significant challenge that hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for more efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation issues, innovative design strategies are being developed, focusing on the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, enhance the dispersion of Zn species and reduce side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, prompting the exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, focusing on the active sites and dehydrogenation pathways to optimize propylene production. Challenges include the formation of undesired products leading to catalyst deactivation, which can be mitigated by controlling the geometric and electronic properties of the catalysts. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance involves the inhibition of deactivation through strategies such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, the use of single-atom alloys and intermetallic compounds can improve propylene selectivity and stability. Additionally, the interaction between Pt and supports like CeO2 can enhance thermal stability and prevent sintering. These advancements in catalyst design are essential for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, deactivation issues persist, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 and CO2 are key oxidants, each with advantages: O2 reduces coke and lowers reaction temperatures, but risks overoxidation; CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by their improved selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like CADH for synthesizing Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, increase interaction between V5+ species and silica support, promoting high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, due to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, influencing metal-support interactions and acid sites for VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in this process. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making it a promising solution for propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and enhance efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on overcoming deactivation issues, improving stability, and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed, and proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, the conventional reaction mode (CRM) for PDH is energy-intensive. To address these issues, there's a need for a new PDH method at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have developed a novel approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, which serves as an active site with cobalt, a promoter with tin to reduce deactivation by coking, and a carbon nitride phase as support. This innovation opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, which are then refilled by O2 or CO2. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, releasing heat. However, this requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. PDH is a kinetically controlled reaction, with CH bond activation as the rate-determining step. Research is ongoing to refine catalysts, focusing on single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site ratio control to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity and serve as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are being developed for PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation, demonstrating a promising solution to catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising catalysts for PDH, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thus enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen in an endothermic reaction. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure catalyst robustness against high temperatures, crucial for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, including late transition and main-group metals, and controlled metal-support interactions contribute to the stability and recyclability of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium constraints and reducing carbon deposition. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized through gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial PDH processes. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts are promising for commercial PDH, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showing remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining approximately 91% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges, notably the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their improved catalytic activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation has proven effective, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites is suitable for achieving high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation challenges, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, to meet evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts that address the challenges of active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms. Smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments of exposed atoms, impacting selectivity and stability. The interaction between Pt and supports, such as CeO2, can stabilize Pt nanoparticles and prevent sintering at high temperatures. The use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying supports with alkaline promoters and metal oxides can decrease acidity and modulate the dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, reducing coke formation. Adjusting reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also mitigate coke accumulation. These design strategies aim to optimize PDH catalysts for enhanced performance and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, lacking the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation, avoiding thermodynamic limitations, is explored with O2 and CO2 as oxidants, each presenting unique advantages and challenges. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, requiring catalyst regeneration and facing issues of low reaction rates and toxicity. Further research is essential to resolve these issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, thus addressing the challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to boost stability and recyclability, addressing key challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. The crystallization temperature of Al2O3 supports affects the distribution of surface V species in VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, impacting catalytic performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing catalyst stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly those synthesized via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing active V3+ species. The nature of the support is critical in catalyst design, influencing metal-support interactions and acid site formation. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face issues due to toxicity or ecologically harmful regeneration processes. An innovative method has been developed for preparing environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through a reaction with support OH groups, show about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, addressing the need for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but faces challenges with temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx-based catalysts show promise but suffer from decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion. NiOx-based catalysts are also being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have evolved. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or detrimental, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, including the use of CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This novel approach reduces energy consumption and opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of promoters like late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers. These strategies aim to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Computational methods, such as DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling, are employed to understand the effects of catalyst structure on C-H bond activation and to screen potential catalyst candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key solution, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size is crucial for PDH performance, as it facilitates the creation of active sites through lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as evidenced by CoOx@NC/S-1, boosts catalytic performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600°C, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and maintain activity at high temperatures. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides increase robustness against coking, while optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. V-based catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown promise in enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supports achieved high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibited stable PDH performance and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, highlighting the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes, capable of maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges, notably coke formation, which significantly hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and exploring single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring stability and efficiency in response to increasing demand. An updated analysis is needed to fully understand the nature and origin of coke, which is crucial for catalyst regeneration and future improvements in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods by directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions, making them low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods fall short, highlighting the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes. Innovative catalysts, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high dispersion of chromium species, vital for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta, contrasting with negative impacts over AlBeta.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Despite acknowledging the significance of these strategies, the literature lacks detailed specifics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. As highlighted by Xiong et al., singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, demonstrating the potential of innovative catalyst design. Gong and coworkers have shown that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can increase propylene selectivity, albeit at the cost of dehydrogenation activity. Understanding and addressing the primary cause of catalyst deactivation, coke formation, is crucial for the design of more stable PDH catalysts. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to enhance catalytic performance and prolong catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to address deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in PDH processes. However, specific details on these strategies are not provided, indicating a need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, allowing for continuous operation, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative. O2 and CO2 are key oxidizing agents, with O2 eliminating coke deposition but introducing overoxidation risks, and CO2 being milder but less heat-producing. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the core issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like CADH for synthesizing Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared through direct co-assembly, enhance V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of oil-based processes. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst design overcomes these challenges, offering higher propene productivity and similar selectivity under industrial conditions, as demonstrated in comparative testing with commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are problematic due to their cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking issues. Moreover, the direct PDH reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach involves using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which opens a new route for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to optimize the MVK mechanism, control the ratio of oxygen sites for balanced activity and selectivity, and utilize computational methods to understand catalyst performance and screen potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity as a leading on-purpose production method. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, show industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites crucial for propane activation, illustrating the impact of phase composition and crystallite size on PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are crucial for PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, achieved 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, demonstrating innovative design strategies to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, leading to better performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the use of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity over extended periods, are critical for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. PDH processes, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackle catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous silica solids. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate enhanced performance and stability in PDH reactions. V-based catalysts, known for their reasonable cost and environmental friendliness, exhibit superior catalytic properties for PDH when supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts supported on Al2O3 and MCM-41, respectively, show high activity and stability in PDH, with the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst's properties remaining stable in the absence of gas-phase O2 and fully recoverable through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. also noted the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst's superior properties, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising choice for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts have shown remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles for PDH, with propane conversion decreasing slowly from 55% to 45% over a 4h reaction duration, while propene selectivity remains at about 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders platinum (Pt) catalyst performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for enhanced stability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being developed, including the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts. These catalysts, with small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, show improved catalytic activity and stability. They are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to address the limitations of conventional techniques. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal in enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, offer optimal dispersion of chromium species, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, as demonstrated by increased propene yield correlating with the number of redox Cr sites. The acidity of the zeolite matrix, such as SiBeta for high selectivity to propene and AlBeta for promoting propane cracking, significantly influences catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation challenges, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, which show superior activity and selectivity but require careful design to prevent deactivation. Smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments of exposed atoms, affecting selectivity and stability. Design strategies aim to optimize the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, which increase as particle size decreases, to enhance propylene production while minimizing side reactions that lead to catalyst deactivation. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based catalysts is essential for developing more stable and selective PDH catalysts. Strategies such as alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) are being explored to inhibit deactivation, improve selectivity, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to combat deactivation, boost stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes, though specifics remain under-documented.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Challenges remain, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate too fast due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery post-regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the process endothermic. CO2 cofeeding may increase coke deposition but can also gasify it. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, including solid oxygen carriers and noble metals for selective hydrogen combustion, require frequent catalyst regeneration, have low reaction rates, and some are toxic, necessitating further research for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, boosts stability, and enhances recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    