Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address challenges in propylene production by enhancing stability and recyclability. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts synthesized via the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) show improved performance with optimized crystallization temperatures. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coking and enhances catalytic performance. VOx/SiO2 catalysts with moderate vanadium doping exhibit high propene yields and stable selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) display superior performance in both ODH-O2 and DDH reactions. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. The most active catalysts achieve STYs of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, while others exhibit STYs ranging from 3.4 to 64 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, depending on the support, loading, and preparation method. These strategies aim to optimize the relative proportion and stability of active V species, leading to more efficient and stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, overcoming limitations of conventional methods. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, address the environmental and toxicity issues of Cr and Pt catalysts. These catalysts, leveraging the role of defective OH groups, achieve three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, offering an environmentally friendly solution to PDH challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Challenges include temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity, leading to decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Achieving high propene yields remains a challenge, particularly over VOx catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods have spurred advancements in PDH techniques. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr and Pt, are effective but costly, scarce, and prone to deactivation, leading to higher energy consumption. To address these issues, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) is being developed. This innovative approach reduces energy consumption and enables high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, addressing the cost, scarcity, and stability concerns of traditional catalysts while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to improve stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, involving reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form vacancies refilled by O2 or CO2. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, added oxidants react with H2, releasing heat, but higher selectivity requires lower temperatures. Understanding complex reaction mechanisms and managing side reactions remain challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, effectively tackling deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance, as exemplified by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, which exhibits superior PDH performance with high propane conversion, excellent propene selectivity, and remarkable stability, overcoming deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH, notably using supported vanadium oxides, is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation by controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling the limitations of conventional techniques. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, is pivotal in mitigating deactivation, minimizing coke formation, and sustaining activity at high temperatures, thus enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting rising industrial demand and adapting to evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques, particularly V-based catalysts on mesoporous silica solids, are gaining prominence. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in PDH reactions. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. on V-based catalysts supported on γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, respectively, confirm high activity and stability, with the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst fully recovering after oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. emphasize the correlation between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate long-term stability, maintaining high propene selectivity over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, which significantly undermines catalytic performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst stability include cofeeding reductive gases like hydrogen with propane (Quote 6), alloying platinum with metals like tin (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst (Quote 9). These strategies aim to improve recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the urgent need to reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, as a response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, directly convert propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for industrial propylene production in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH efficiency [5]. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly influence propene yield [9]. Dealumination impacts catalytic properties, with SiBeta zeolites' low acidity boosting propene selectivity above 80%, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking [6].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative amid rising demand and conventional constraints. Focus shifts to innovative catalyst design strategies, combating deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include optimizing the fraction of under-coordinated atoms on catalyst surfaces, which increase as particle size decreases, to improve propylene production while minimizing side reactions that lead to catalyst deactivation. Understanding the role of Pt geometric sites and electronic states is crucial for controlling propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Strategies also focus on inhibiting deactivation through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation, which is the primary cause of catalyst deactivation. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, where Pt atoms are bonded onto CeO2 via the combination of [Pt2+O4] single atoms, demonstrating the effectiveness of innovative design strategies in enhancing PDH catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, as highlighted in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, lacking the performance of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus optimizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, nonoxidative PDH techniques emerge as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation, a persistent issue, is being tackled through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, positioning PDH as a promising solution in the evolving chemical industry landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg addition combats coking, improving performance. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 boosts catalytic activity by increasing Lewis acid sites. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs enhances V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures significantly affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is critical for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment above 550C, facilitated by defective OH groups. This new catalyst, ZnOsilicalite-1, outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency, but higher temperatures can decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are crucial. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to reduce energy consumption through lower-temperature PDH methods. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts has been developed, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, tackles the limitations of traditional methods. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face issues of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping and carrier modification, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, pivotal for oxidative PDH, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form vacancies, refilled by O2 or CO2, overcoming thermodynamic limitations and improving selectivity at lower temperatures. These advancements address the challenges in PDH, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene by utilizing ZrO2-based catalysts. These catalysts, featuring optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhance activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, thereby improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, meets growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1 with isolated sites, achieve 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, highlighting its stability and recyclability potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH using VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts emerges as a viable alternative. These catalysts, with high activity and selectivity, are enhanced by innovative design strategies that control surface structure under reaction conditions, mitigating deactivation and improving recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups notably suppress coke deposition, crucial for maintaining performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and long-term activity loss, are essential for PDH's success. Promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides enhance coking resistance. Optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, addressing efficient PDH process needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH is gaining prominence, particularly through advancements in V-based catalyst design on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability and recyclability in PDH, with high propene selectivity. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. highlight the high activity and stability of V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, underscoring their commercial PDH potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable large-scale production method. PDH, now industrialized, encounters catalyst deactivation challenges, notably coke formation, impairing platinum (Pt) catalyst efficiency. Innovative strategies to alleviate deactivation involve adding reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and production limitations, as evidenced by recent studies and reviews focusing on coke formation mechanisms and inhibition methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane and addressing traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring ZnO on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with a well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity, reduce side reactions, and are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high dispersion of chromium species, essential for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, where the number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced role of acidity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a promising solution, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation and sintering, poses a significant challenge to PDH efficiency. Innovative design strategies, such as alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, are being developed to enhance stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. These strategies aim to increase selectivity and recyclability in PDH processes, optimizing efficiency. As demonstrated by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, showcasing the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, albeit with a trade-off in dehydrogenation activity. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms is crucial for the design of more stable Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations and rising demand. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal in overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, as highlighted by the quote: 'PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations and rising demand. Innovative catalyst design is crucial for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Despite advancements with PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues, primarily due to coke deposition, remain unresolved, emphasizing the need for further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising, with O2 and CO2 as leading oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, being milder, results in less heat formation and may increase coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal. Alternative solutions, like solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, show potential but require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging price variance between propane and propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation and support modification, address thermally induced deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by employing innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH for Al2O3 synthesis, P and Mg modification of VOx/Al2O3, and co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts enhance stability and recyclability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. Preparation methods significantly influence the performance of V-based catalysts, with the most active exhibiting STYs 34 times less than Pt catalysts. Crystallization temperature, P and Mg modification, and co-assembly techniques improve catalytic performance and stability, as evidenced by increased propane conversion and propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of toxic Cr and environmentally harmful Pt catalysts. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts are developed, overcoming these challenges. Supported ZnOx species, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, exhibit three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, marking a significant advancement in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high surface area, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts, which are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking, cracking, and high energy consumption, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed. This innovation offers a low-temperature PDH method that significantly reduces energy consumption and opens a new, efficient route for propane utilization, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to improve catalyst performance by balancing activity and selectivity, reducing byproduct formation, and overcoming deactivation issues. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies, is crucial in oxidative PDH, requiring careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address limitations in traditional propylene production. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring smaller crystallite sizes and a monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance, making it a promising alternative amid growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as seen in CoOx@NC/S-1, significantly enhances catalytic performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH offers a viable solution. Supported vanadium oxides act as promising PDH catalysts, with surface structure and hydroxyl group control addressing deactivation issues. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 notably enhance stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, thus improving nonoxidative PDH process performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackle deactivation by minimizing coke formation. Promoters like late transition metals enhance robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size improve stability and recyclability, crucial for commercial viability in growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like silica, γ-Al2O3, ZrO2, and Al2O3 tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. highlight the superior properties of VOX/MCM-41, showing full recovery post-regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirm VOX species' role in deactivation, validating V-based catalysts for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate notable long-term stability over eight cycles, with high propane conversion and propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution for large-scale propylene production. However, catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to tackle coke formation, including hydrogen cofeeding, platinum alloying with metals like tin, support modification, catalyst size adjustment, and exploration of single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the urgent need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackle catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "To meet the escalating demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative. PDH, alongside other methods like olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), is essential for addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high chromium dispersion, a key factor for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. The use of such catalysts demonstrates the potential for PDH to address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address the issue of catalyst deactivation, which is a significant challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and recyclability of PDH catalysts, particularly in the context of oxidative and nonoxidative processes. The focus is on improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Techniques such as alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) are being explored to improve catalyst performance. These approaches not only increase the efficiency of PDH processes but also contribute to the overall sustainability of propylene production in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling limitations of traditional techniques and meeting growing industrial demand. Key to its success are innovative catalyst design strategies that address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating further research (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, uses O2 or CO2: O2 eliminates coke and reduces reaction temperature but risks overoxidation (Quote 8), while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation (Quote 11). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, requiring catalyst regeneration and addressing toxicity for industrial feasibility (Quote 16, Quote 19).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints have propelled PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving PDH process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. While thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle, recent advancements focus on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification to boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification disperses V2O5 crystallites, decreasing coke formation. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts strengthens V5+ interaction with silica, boosting activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits superior performance due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Preparation methods can tune the stability and proportion of active V species, impacting catalyst performance. The nature of the support, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution, is crucial for optimal VOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, shows promise. Defective OH groups play a key role in active ZnOx species formation. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, offering a sustainable solution to PDH challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion, creating solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, and developing membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and improve stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, with potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the critical nature of the VOx phase for VOx-based catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques have evolved to address limitations of conventional production methods. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This innovative design, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase as the support, opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, effectively reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being highly active but facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with promoters and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form vacancies, is crucial in oxidative PDH. However, the reaction products are easily over-oxidized, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Research is focusing on single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site ratio control to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods for efficient catalyst screening.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand and production limitations. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, particularly in the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability, boosting activity and propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas-derived propane, is a viable propylene production method addressing industrial demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, as highlighted by the active site isolation strategy. This strategy enhances catalytic performance, as exemplified by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH presents a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts on γ-Al2O3 supports are pivotal, offering activity, selectivity, and regeneration. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence, mitigate deactivation, enhancing stability in nonoxidative PDH. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, improving stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling limitations of conventional techniques. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, effectively combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies like promoters to resist coking and optimizing metal-support interactions are critical for PDH's commercial success, ensuring particle size, shape, and alloying elements are controlled for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH using V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports, such as SiO2 and Al2O3, is gaining prominence. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. underscore the high activity, stability, and recyclability of these catalysts, with Bai et al. noting exceptional performance on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and Sokolov et al. reporting complete recovery of VOX/MCM-41 through oxidative regeneration, affirming V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH processes in the evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Innovative strategies, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the growing demand for propylene. Despite progress, a systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts is lacking, highlighting the need for further research to improve reactivity and stability in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a direct propane-to-propylene conversion method, addressing rising propylene demand and production limitations. Innovative catalysts, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, effectively tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with sparse Al sites, promote Zn dispersion, reducing side reactions. Their low cost, toxicity-free nature, and reusability make them ideal for industrial propylene production, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as an alternative to traditional production methods. Alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), PDH addresses production limitations. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion significantly boosts catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, as evidenced by the correlation between the number of redox Cr sites and propene yield. This demonstrates the effectiveness of PDH in meeting escalating industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. Literature acknowledges the pursuit of these strategies, underscoring their importance in addressing industrial needs and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH processes, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include modifying supports to decrease acidity and improve thermal stability, alloying metals to alter electronic properties, and employing strong metal-support interactions to stabilize nanoparticles. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms is crucial, as is the role of geometric and electronic structures in coke formation. Alloying with promoters like Cu can elevate energy barriers for side reactions and facilitate propylene desorption, while the addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity. These advancements are crucial for improving the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for addressing deactivation challenges, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, directly responding to the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising but poses risks of overoxidation with O2 and less heat with CO2. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts enhance selectivity and efficiency, effectively addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design to enhance stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalyst properties, with dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offering high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, with the most active V-based catalysts being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a sustainable propylene production method, crucial for meeting industrial demand and overcoming oil-based process limitations. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and ecological drawbacks. A novel ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, addresses these issues. This catalyst, with active ZnOx species, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity than conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, presenting a promising solution for enhanced propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation offer cogeneration potential. VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies are addressing the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, or detrimental, and prone to coking and cracking. A new method operating at lower temperatures is sought to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have developed a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to high-temperature effects. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. These strategies seek to balance activity and selectivity, minimizing byproduct formation and improving catalyst performance, tackling the thermodynamic and kinetic challenges of PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, meet industrial demand for propylene. ZrO2-based catalysts, especially in monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes, overcome deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, making them industrially relevant and cost-efficient.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as evidenced by spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, significantly boosts catalytic performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600°C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage, balancing activity and stability, minimizing coke formation, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method amid rising demand and conventional constraints, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, employing promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides, combat deactivation by resisting coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size enhance stability and recyclability, ensuring PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, notably V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3, address growing propylene demand and conventional method limitations by enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies highlight VOX/MCM-41 catalysts' high activity, stability, and full recovery after oxidative regeneration, effectively tackling deactivation issues in commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH faces challenges, notably the deactivation of Pt catalysts due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting the increasing demand for propylene in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite-supported ZnO, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing activity and stability. These cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts are well-suited for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites facilitates high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts, underscoring the importance of catalyst design in meeting industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH processes in an evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. As demonstrated by Xiong et al., single-atom Pt on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, highlighting the potential of single atom catalysis. Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu can lead to higher propylene selectivity, albeit with reduced dehydrogenation activity. The use of reducible metal oxides, such as TiO2, can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively impact coke elimination. The addition of Sn not only inhibits CC bond cleavage and improves selectivity but also allows coke precursors to migrate from active metals to supports, enhancing catalyst stability. Strong metal-support interactions can prevent sintering of metal particles, as demonstrated by the high thermal stability of PtSn clusters on CeO2. The confinement effect provided by supports can prevent sintering and maintain the stability of catalysts during PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method amid growing demand and conventional limitations. Key catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, directly addressing challenges in the evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are vital for propylene production, addressing industrial demand post-shale gas era. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts, though effective, face challenges in stability and energy efficiency [2]. Alternative metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition [3], lacking the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 and CO2 lacks thermodynamic limitations [5], with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperatures, making the process exothermic but risking overoxidation [8, 9]. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic [11]. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion [15], but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability [19, 20]. Further research is essential to address these challenges [4].", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide exemplifies innovative catalyst design, tackling deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, and boosting PDH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by focusing on innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH enhances VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites, while P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification reduces coke formation, boosting activity. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid sites affecting VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand amidst limitations of traditional methods. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological harm issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, overcomes these limitations. This catalyst leverages defective OH groups for active ZnOx species formation, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, making it a promising solution for propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but faces challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome these issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while doped ceria shows promise for this purpose. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed, and proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors could cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in designing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts using Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, with issues of coking and cracking, and high energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) addresses these challenges by offering a low-temperature method that reduces energy consumption and opens new routes for efficient propane utilization, making it a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing catalyst deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements are crucial for improving catalyst performance and propylene production efficiency, aligning with the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, meet growing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative design strategies target ZrO2-based catalysts, optimizing phase composition and crystallite size to overcome deactivation. The monoclinic phase with smaller crystallite sizes exhibits higher activity and selectivity for propene, crucial for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes, making these catalysts industrially relevant.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand highlights PDH as a key production method, utilizing shale-gas propane. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with innovative active site isolation strategies enhancing performance. A synthesized catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, exhibits superior PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after prolonged high-temperature reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, notably using vanadium oxides, offer a viable solution. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, effectively mitigate catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably suppress coke deposition, significantly improving the efficiency of nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robustness at high temperatures. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape further boost catalyst performance, directly addressing the challenges of deactivation and enhancing overall PDH process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques using V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 supports address industrial demand for propylene by avoiding thermodynamic limitations and reducing carbon deposition. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts stable for PDH without gas-phase O2 and fully recoverable with oxidative regeneration, enhancing stability and recyclability. Rodemerck et al. confirmed VOX/MCM-41's superior catalytic properties, suggesting its suitability for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like Sn (Quote 7), modifying supports (Quote 8), adjusting Pt catalyst size (Quote 9), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (Quote 10). These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH meets rising propylene demand by directly converting propane, avoiding steam cracking. Innovative catalysts, like ZnO supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-assisted PDH, as a critical alternative. Innovative catalysts, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion on SiBeta zeolites, with its low acidity, achieves high propene selectivity. Redox Cr sites significantly influence propene yield, and CO2's presence boosts propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, as demonstrated in switch operation mode.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that are selective for propylene production while minimizing side reactions, the optimization of particle size to balance active site availability and deactivation risk, and the use of supports that can inhibit coke formation and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is essential for the design of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts. Strategies like the use of reducible metal oxides, strong metal-support interactions, and confinement effects in mesoporous materials are being explored to enhance catalyst performance and longevity. These advancements aim to improve the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, making them more viable in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies to boost stability and recyclability, meeting industrial demand and adapting to energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, without thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke but introduces overoxidation challenges, while CO2 is milder but less heat-producing. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability, recyclability, selectivity, and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, boosting catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst design must consider support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed via OH group reactions at high temperatures, offer environmental compatibility and superior performance. Notably, ZnOsilicalite-1 achieves three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional catalysts, as evidenced by benchmarking tests under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and improve stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on the membrane type and geometry. The challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical to performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are crucial. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, though effective, are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. Seeking a solution, researchers aim to develop a new PDH method at lower temperatures to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode, has been introduced for the first time. This innovation addresses catalyst deactivation, enhances stability and recyclability, and opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, faces challenges like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity and fast deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, is crucial for understanding the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. However, thermodynamic limitations and the need for higher temperatures to activate the CH bond in propane must also be considered, highlighting the ongoing efforts to improve PDH efficiency and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques, notably using ZrO2-based catalysts, emerge as a key solution. These catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, enhance propene selectivity and activity. Their ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, making them effective in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using shale-gas-derived propane, is a viable propylene production method. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites, excels in PDH, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution. Vanadium oxide catalysts, central to PDH processes, are being optimized through innovative design strategies that control surface structure and hydroxyl groups, significantly reducing coke deposition and enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are essential for commercial PDH. Strategies include using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and rare-earth metal oxides to enhance stability and recyclability, optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and conventional method limitations, PDH techniques using V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH performance with VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, which could be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed VOX/MCM-41's superior catalytic properties for PDH, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising commercial option. These catalysts, optimized for PDH, demonstrate superior activity, stability, and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution (Quote 2). However, platinum catalysts used in PDH face significant challenges due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying platinum with metals such as tin (Quote 7), and exploring single atom catalysts (Quote 10). These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, ensuring the efficiency of PDH processes in meeting the escalating demand for propylene. Computational simulations provide insights into the deactivation mechanism, highlighting the need for an updated understanding of coke formation on platinum catalysts in PDH (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and conventional limitations. Innovative design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites effectively disperse Zn species, making the resulting ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion significantly enhances catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, as evidenced by the correlation between redox Cr sites and propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, contrasting with AlBeta's high acidity that favors propane cracking. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, underscoring the efficacy of these design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design for enhanced stability and recyclability, crucial in meeting growing demand and overcoming traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also the diversity of exposed atoms, affecting selectivity and stability. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as particle size decreases, impacting catalyst performance. Pt-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity, but the fundamental active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH are still under investigation. Innovative design strategies are essential to overcome these challenges and advance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's evolution in changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts, like metal oxides, face rapid deactivation from coke deposition and regeneration inefficiencies. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts are a key innovation, combating deactivation issues to enhance stability and recyclability, thus improving efficiency and selectivity in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking highlight the cost-effective potential of PDH techniques, particularly nonoxidative PDH, due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge, prompting the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance through increased Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows five times higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to higher V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and environmental issues. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, developed through OH group reactions, offers environmental compatibility and superior propene productivity, addressing deactivation challenges in PDH processes (ref. [3]). This catalyst demonstrates about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing its potential in PDH (ref. [7]).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are explored for efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can potentially cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques are gaining traction. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face challenges of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To address these issues, a focus on low-temperature PDH methods is emerging to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, introduced for the first time as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offers a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation aims to enhance stability and recyclability, overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts but faces challenges like poor selectivity and stability due to high-temperature operations. Innovative strategies, including doping with transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These approaches address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH, focusing on the MVK mechanism and temperature control for improved selectivity. Advanced catalyst development, featuring single-atom catalysts and modified acid-base properties, balances activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods for better understanding and screening.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, crucial for on-purpose propylene production, tackle industrial demand. Innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, optimizing phase composition and crystallite size to enhance activity and selectivity to propene. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase outperform tetragonal ZrO2, addressing deactivation issues and improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, PDH techniques utilizing shale-gas propane are emerging as a viable solution. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are further optimized through active site isolation, significantly enhancing PDH performance. This strategy boosts catalytic efficiency, as evidenced by the exceptional performance of the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, which exhibits high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation over prolonged reaction periods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts are promising due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, are being explored to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, promotes selective dehydrogenation and reduces coke formation. Robust catalysts withstand high temperatures and maintain long-term activity, essential for stability and recyclability. Promoters and optimal metal-support interactions enhance resistance against coking, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges in the context of increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative, particularly through the use of innovative V-based catalysts. Supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, these catalysts exhibit enhanced stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties and stability of V-based catalysts, notably VOX/MCM-41, which fully recovers through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlighted the importance of VOX species in catalyst deactivation, advocating for V-based catalysts in commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintain high propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple cycles in non-oxidative PDH, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale production (Quote 2). However, coke formation significantly hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH (Quote 3). To address this, innovative strategies are being developed, including hydrogen cofeeding to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, effectively tackling the challenges posed by the growing demand for propylene. A systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts is crucial for understanding reactivity and stability in PDH (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have led to propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, used as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance catalytic activity and stability by dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions, offering cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and boosting propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative, innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the increasing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Pt-based catalysts, crucial for dehydrogenation, are being optimized to balance activity and selectivity, with a focus on inhibiting side reactions that lead to deactivation. As metal particles shrink, the fraction of active sites increases, impacting dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms. Strategies to improve selectivity and stability include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions. These aim to reduce coke formation and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms is essential for the development of more stable catalysts, and the inhibition of deactivation is a key requirement for improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, as highlighted in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative metal oxide catalysts, despite attention, face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising, with O2 eliminating coke, lowering reaction temperatures, and making the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity and reaction rate issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations underscore PDH's viability. Catalyst deactivation challenges are met with innovative design strategies, like supported vanadium oxide catalysts, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving PDH efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and shifting energy dynamics, nonoxidative PDH stands out as a viable alternative to conventional oil-based cracking, leveraging the cost differential between propane and propylene. While thermally-induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge, recent design strategies, such as active site regulation and support modification, are enhancing stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH for mesoporous Al2O3 synthesis boosts VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, notably V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows five times higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to the reduction of VO bonds, yielding active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is critical, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can adjust the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts, however, are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and ecological drawbacks. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst preparation method overcomes these issues, forming supported ZnOx species at high temperatures. This new catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making it a promising solution for industrial needs, as evidenced by its environmentally compatible nature and superior performance under industrially relevant conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements and enhancing efficiency. Catalyst deactivation challenges are being tackled through innovative design strategies to improve stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors could cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional PDH methods, innovative catalyst design strategies are addressing challenges. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) operates at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and offering a sustainable route for high-value propane utilization, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being favored for their high activity but facing challenges of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. To address these challenges, innovative strategies such as doping with additional promoters and modifying carriers are being developed. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms, creating and refilling oxygen vacancies, which is crucial for understanding the reaction pathways and improving catalyst performance. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, making PDH a viable solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address traditional propylene production limitations. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring smaller crystallite sizes and a monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability by creating active sites through lattice oxygen release, optimizing performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby tackling catalyst deactivation challenges in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using shale-gas-derived propane, is a viable propylene production method, addressing growing demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy, exemplified by CoOx@NC/S-1, enhances catalytic performance, achieving 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques using supported vanadium oxides offer a viable alternative, with high activity, selectivity, and regeneration potential. Innovative design strategies, particularly focusing on surface-bound hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group presence on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts mitigates deactivation issues, significantly improving nonoxidative PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and conventional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation, boosts stability, and enhances recyclability. These advancements promote selective dehydrogenation, reduce coke formation, and withstand high temperatures. Promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides increase coking resistance, while optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size and shape improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, especially mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. highlight VOX/MCM-41's full recovery through oxidative regeneration and sustained high propene selectivity over multiple cycles, addressing challenges in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative (Quote 2). However, coke formation significantly hampers Pt catalyst performance in PDH (Quote 3). Strategies to mitigate coke include cofeeding reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6) and alloying Pt with metals such as Sn (Quote 7). There's a need for an updated understanding of coke formation on Pt catalysts (Quote 17), crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking, and address industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by ZnO clusters on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are pivotal. Innovative chromium-containing Beta zeolites serve as effective catalysts, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion produces superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a pivotal role. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield, demonstrating the effectiveness of these strategies in meeting industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, critical for evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including separating active metal components, alloying with diverse promoters, and modifying support properties, are being developed to address catalyst deactivation issues, primarily caused by coke formation (Quote 26). Separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity (Quote 50). Alloying with diverse promoters can modulate the surface electronic structure, impacting the reactivity and selectivity of the catalyst. These strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH is gaining prominence as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, tackling deactivation issues to boost stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by focusing on catalyst design to overcome rapid deactivation, particularly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising as it can achieve full conversion of paraffins. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability. Innovative strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for the evolution of PDH as a competitive alternative.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts exemplify this, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH reactions, effectively tackling issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH is a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 reveals that crystallization temperature impacts catalytic performance by influencing the distribution of surface V species. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability. Innovative techniques, such as direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, enhance V5+ species interaction with silica, boosting activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures significantly affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 are promising supports, with VOx/ZrO2 exhibiting higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. The nature of the support is crucial in catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species, with significant performance variation among V-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital eco-friendly alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts, using Cr or Pt, face toxicity and harmful regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst preparation method overcomes these challenges, forming active ZnOx species at high temperatures. The new ZnOsilicalite-1 catalyst outperforms a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions while maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, challenges arise as alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and doped ceria shows promise for this purpose. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially co-producing alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, innovative PDH techniques are addressing catalyst deactivation and energy consumption issues. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, significantly reducing energy consumption and offering a sustainable route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. This innovation opens a new path for efficient propylene production in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies, is pivotal in oxidative PDH, requiring precise temperature control for selectivity. Research is exploring single-atom catalysts, adjusting acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen site ratios on catalyst surfaces to address deactivation issues, crucial for the advancement of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, meet industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized phase composition and crystallite size enable lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment, creating active sites vital for PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane, address the growing demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant on Earth, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A synthesized catalyst (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrated 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, address catalyst deactivation challenges. Hydroxyl groups suppress coke deposition, a major deactivation cause, by managing their coverage to balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling growing demand and conventional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation by reducing coke formation. Promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides enhance resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape are pivotal for improved stability and recyclability, ensuring PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address rising propylene demand and production constraints by utilizing VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, optimized through gelation and calcination temperatures. Notably, VOX-SiO2 demonstrates high activity, stability, and recyclability, maintaining 91% propene selectivity over eight cycles, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, a proven industrial process, faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the introduction of reductive gases to minimize coke, alloying Pt with other metals for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) offer insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the increasing demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand, offering an alternative to steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, enhances stability and recyclability, improving activity and reducing side reactions, making them cost-effective and non-toxic for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-assisted PDH, is a promising solution. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH modes with and without CO2 demonstrates the positive impact of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method amid growing demand and traditional constraints. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, boosting stability and recyclability, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge, is being addressed through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. Pt-based catalysts, while effective, face issues from side reactions leading to deactivation. Shrinking particle size increases active sites but diversifies local environments, impacting selectivity. Alloying with Cu, as shown by Gong et al., elevates the energy barrier for side reactions and facilitates propylene desorption, improving selectivity. Understanding the role of Pt valence states, as highlighted by Xiong et al., is crucial for optimizing conversion. Strategies include modifying support properties, adjusting reaction conditions, and employing strong metal-support interactions to prevent sintering and improve stability. These advancements aim to optimize PDH efficiency and recyclability, addressing industrial needs and global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design for enhanced stability and recyclability, crucial in meeting rising industrial demand and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using PtSn and CrOx catalysts, address industrial demand for propylene but face challenges with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition (Quote 2, 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5), shows potential with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation (Quote 6). CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 16), but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity (Quote 19) need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Focusing on vanadium oxide catalysts, innovative design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements significantly improve selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, is a promising alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, including CADH for Al2O3 synthesis, P and Mg modifications for VOx/Al2O3, and co-assembly for V/SiO2. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits high activity due to the reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. Preparation methods and support materials significantly impact catalytic performance, with the most active V-based catalysts showing STYs 3-4 times less than Pt catalysts. Crystallization temperature affects the distribution of surface V species, P modification decreases VOx polymerization, and Mg modification reduces coke deposits, all improving catalyst stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, developed for environmental compatibility, shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, as evidenced under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Challenges arise as alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts' nature is critical for performance, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Catalyst design strategies include minimizing the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity and utilizing supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode. Supported molybdenum catalysts exhibit higher propene selectivity but lower yield than vanadium counterparts due to lower activity. The turnover rates in ODH of propane correlate with reducibility of supported VOx, MoOx, NbOx, and WOx catalysts. Titration of acid sites with alkali ions increases propene selectivity but decreases propane conversion. The unprecedented selectivity of VOx/MgAlO may be attributed to heterolytic CH activation, reduction of V5+ to V3+, and weak surface acidity. Water presence regenerates Mg-Al-layered double hydroxides, restoring favorable conditions for the V3+/V5+ redox cycle. The redox property of NiOx is being investigated for use in ODH of alkanes, with potential direct participation of the Ni-center in CH activation. Rational design of NiOx-based ODH catalysts should identify compatible surface oxygen and hydrogen species involved in CH activation. The proposed mechanism of ODH over Li/MgO catalyst does not involve removal of catalyst lattice oxygen species but instead leads to the formation of an alkyl radical. Alkene selectivity increases with decreasing Lewis acidity of metal ions. Analyses suggest electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems can provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Addressing the limitations of costly and scarce Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts, which suffer from coking and cracking, researchers have developed a novel CoSn/NC catalyst for microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This non-precious catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to reduce coking, operates at lower temperatures, significantly reducing energy consumption. The carbon nitride phase serves as a support, enhancing stability and recyclability, offering a new, efficient route for propane utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts due to poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, crucial in oxidative PDH, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, leading to oxygen vacancies and a catalytic cycle. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, releasing heat, requiring careful temperature control for high selectivity. Research focuses on developing catalysts with improved performance through single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modification, and oxygen site ratio control, addressing the challenges of deactivation and enhancing the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, enhance stability and recyclability by releasing lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation, thus improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, as per Quote [2]. The active site isolation strategy, as per Quote [3], significantly boosts catalytic performance. This strategy was applied to create a cobalt oxide catalyst on nitrogen-doped carbon and silicalite-1 zeolite, achieving exceptional PDH performance and stability, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at high temperatures, as per Quote [5].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, notably those using supported vanadium oxides, are gaining prominence. These catalysts offer high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably suppress coke deposition, a key deactivation factor, significantly improving performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies optimize selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts resistant to high temperatures and long-term activity. Promoters increase coking resistance, while optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size and shape further improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH using V-based catalysts on mesoporous silica offers a viable solution. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, tailored for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior activity and stability. VOX/MCM-41, supported on Al2O3 and MCM-41, demonstrates high activity and stability in PDH, fully recoverable post-oxidative regeneration. The VOX-SiO2 catalyst maintains long-term stability through multiple reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion and propene selectivity remaining high.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods highlight the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as an alternative. Pt catalysts in PDH, however, face deactivation due to coke formation, affecting performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies to mitigate coke formation include reductive gas cofeeding (Quote 6), Pt alloying with metals like Sn (Quote 7), support modification (Quote 8), adjusting Pt size (Quote 9), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (Quote 10). These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and production challenges (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations by utilizing innovative catalyst design. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO combat deactivation issues, offering enhanced stability and recyclability. These catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing PDH stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation on Beta zeolites, known for their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. The number of redox Cr sites directly impacts propene yield, highlighting the importance of these sites in the oxidative pathway. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with SiBeta's low acidity promoting high propene selectivity, while AlBeta's high acidity favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, demonstrating the effectiveness of innovative catalyst design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations underscore PDH's promise as an alternative, innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation to boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms, and optimizing particle size to balance activity and stability. The use of bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports and metals are among the methods being explored to inhibit deactivation. For instance, the interaction between Pt and Cu can elevate the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitate propylene desorption, improving selectivity. Additionally, the introduction of metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, reflecting PDH's evolution in response to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the industrial demand for propylene, overcoming traditional production limitations. Catalysts like PtSn and CrOx face deactivation issues, mainly due to coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Innovative design strategies are essential for stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 prevents coke formation but poses overoxidation risks, while CO2 is milder but less heat-producing. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer alternatives, requiring catalyst regeneration and facing toxicity issues. Further research is crucial to optimize these processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design, like supported vanadium oxide catalysts, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting industrial demand and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative design strategies, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to boost stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues in response to the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and deactivation issues through innovative catalyst design. Strategies include CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg modification for enhanced anti-coking capability, improving stability and recyclability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 show improved performance due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design, including support type and preparation methods, significantly influences structure, activity, and stability. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts, but studies show that varying preparation methods and support types can greatly enhance PDH catalyst efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative method now creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, which outperform commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, showing three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity. These catalysts are a promising solution to enhance PDH efficiency and tackle deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria improves selectivity, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Seeking a low-temperature PDH method to reduce energy use, researchers have innovated the CoSn/NC catalyst for microwave catalytic reaction mode, offering a novel microwave catalyst for direct propane dehydrogenation and opening a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at high temperatures. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, characteristic of oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies. Adding an oxidant addresses thermodynamic limitations by reacting with hydrogen to produce water and release heat, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Strategies like single-atom catalysts and oxygen site ratio control balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods, addressing the rate-determining step of the CH bond activation in propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, meet industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2 with optimized properties, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen creates active sites for propane activation, making PDH a viable solution in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative, utilizing shale-gas propane reserves. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation strategies enhancing performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH using vanadium oxide catalysts emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, like managing surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhance stability, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, featuring advanced types like single-atom, alloy, and supported metals, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies promote selective dehydrogenation, reduce coke formation, and ensure robust catalyst performance at high temperatures, crucial for commercial viability in evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH with V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like silica, Al2O3, and MCM-41, offers enhanced stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for processing conditions, exhibit superior activity. Bai et al. reported high activity with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to maintain stable PDH performance, fully recoverable with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlighted the stability of VOX species in VOX/MCM-41, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising commercial PDH option, with VOX-SiO2 showing notable stability over eight cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution for large-scale propylene production. Pt catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, hinders PDH's performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to tackle these issues, including hydrogen cofeeding to reduce coke formation (quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like tin for added benefits (quote 7), modifying supports (quote 8), adjusting catalyst size (quote 9), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (quote 10). These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring the chemical industry's demands are met and adapting to the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring ZnO on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, while small ZnO clusters serve as active phases. The resulting catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-PDH, emerges as a key alternative. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-dispersed Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of acidity on PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations have propelled PDH as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as succinctly stated: 'Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that bolster stability and recyclability.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge, impacting efficiency and recyclability. Innovative design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions, are being developed to enhance stability and selectivity. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Particle size affects the fraction of active sites and their local environments, influencing selectivity and stability. Pt geometric sites and electronic states significantly impact propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, leading to higher selectivity. Strategies to mitigate deactivation focus on modifying supports, metals, and treatments. Alkaline promoters and reducible metal oxides decrease acidity, improving dispersion and electronic properties of Pt. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, positively affect coke elimination. Supports provide spatial constraints to prevent sintering, while regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction can reactivate catalysts, although continuous regeneration may not fully restore performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production alternative, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, critical for evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts, including GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, necessitating research for effective regeneration strategies. Oxidative dehydrogenation, utilizing O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges such as overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and oil-based cracking constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. While thermally induced deactivation poses a challenge, recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to boost stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    