Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering efficient production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as using mesoporous Al2O3 supports synthesized through CADH, influence VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by affecting surface V species distribution. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields high concentrations of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and activity. Mg modification on VOx/Al2O3 with 12 wt% V loading shows anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, achieving propene yields of 1927% over 6 h DDH. The highest STY achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V/SiO2 catalysts (1:12 mass ratio) display optimal performance with a propene yield of 59.5% and stable selectivity of 90% over 6 h at 580 C, corresponding to a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V-DMSNs catalysts exhibit an initial propane conversion of 18.1% and propene selectivity of 91%, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, one of the highest VOx catalysts. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, shows a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1, among the most active VOx-based catalysts. Preparation methods can tune the relative proportion and stability of the most active V species. The range of V-based catalyst performance varies, with the most active exhibiting STYs 34 times less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Cr and Pt catalysts used in commercial PDH technologies have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative method introduces environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form in situ through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the ZnOsilicalite-1 catalyst demonstrates about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing the need for stable and recyclable catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms are being explored for NiOx-based ODH catalysts, while homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are being developed. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these issues, a novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed. This method operates at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, supported by a carbon nitride phase, opens new possibilities for efficient PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed. These include doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, modifying carriers, and exploring single-atom catalysts with defined structures. Acid-base property adjustments through alkali metal additives and control of oxygen site ratios on the catalyst surface are also being investigated to balance activity and selectivity. Computational methods, such as DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling, support the development of these catalysts by elucidating structure-reactivity relationships and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for creating active sites through lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment. Monoclinic ZrO2 outperforms tetragonal ZrO2, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene by converting abundant shale-gas propane into propene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are developed for PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies involve the use of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. Focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, are being explored. These catalysts demonstrate superior catalytic properties, stability, and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by studies showing high activity and stability over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports, respectively, achieved high catalytic activity and stability, with the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. also highlighted the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, underscoring the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts have shown remarkable long-term stability in non-oxidative PDH, with propane conversion rates slowly decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting the challenges posed by increasing propylene demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. Supported on high-silica HZSM-5, ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the need for alternatives like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Selective processes, including PDH, are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the optimization of active sites, understanding deactivation mechanisms, and the impact of particle size on deactivation. For instance, smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. The challenge is to balance the increase in active sites with the prevention of side reactions that lead to catalyst deactivation. Strategies such as alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions are being developed to inhibit deactivation, promote propylene selectivity, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. However, detailed strategies for overcoming catalyst deactivation remain under-documented.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow continuous operation, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate quickly due to coke deposition, hindering full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address low reaction rates and toxicity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of traditional oil-based cracking methods, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation challenge.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, where crystallization temperature affects Lewis acid sites and surface V species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally compatible solution. This catalyst, as demonstrated in testing, exhibits three times higher propene productivity compared to conventional catalysts, maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts, necessitating careful VOx phase design. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking. These issues, coupled with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes, necessitate innovative solutions. Researchers are developing new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts as microwave catalysts under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced for the first time. This development opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically performed at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while highly active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to address the MVK mechanism challenges and the need for lower temperatures to achieve higher selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a major process for on-purpose propene production. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, showing industrial relevance in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size is key, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibiting higher activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites crucial for propane activation, enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are developed for PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Synthesized cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) exhibit exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups, can enhance catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, leading to improved recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and withstand high temperatures for commercial viability. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, shape, and alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures have shown superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibited stable PDH properties and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. also noted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, suggesting V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with coke formation that significantly impacts the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene and addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions, making them low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production, thus meeting increasing industrial demand and adapting to changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are addressing catalyst deactivation challenges to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, catering to evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). By improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles, these approaches aim to increase the efficiency and recyclability of PDH catalysts. For instance, the fraction of active sites increases as metal particles shrink, impacting reactivity and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts, with their varying electronic states, play a significant role in the conversion of propane to propylene, with the potential for high selectivity under optimized conditions. The design of catalytic systems with enhanced performance is guided by the inhibition of deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation, which can be mitigated through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments. Understanding and addressing these challenges is essential for the advancement of PDH technology in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in enhancing stability, recyclability, and overcoming deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow continuous operation for years, but challenges remain in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too fast due to coke deposition, requiring further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke, lowers temperature, and makes the reaction exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals for selective hydrogen combustion are explored, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are addressing industrial demand for propylene by improving catalyst stability and recyclability. Catalyst design strategies, such as P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg addition for anti-coking capability, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area shows that crystallization temperature affects the distribution of surface V species. Direct co-assembly of vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) increases interaction between V5+ species and silica support, leading to high catalytic activity. VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 as supports improve catalytic activity, with VOx/ZrO2 being five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer an environmentally friendly solution. Defective OH groups play a key role in active ZnOx species formation. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst boosts propene productivity by three times at similar selectivity, as evidenced in industrial tests.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, challenges arise due to decreased alkene selectivity with temperature increases. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving. Existing PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these challenges, innovative design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, with a focus on the MVK mechanism and the need for controlled reaction temperatures to achieve high selectivity. Single-atom catalysts with well-defined structures and the modification of acid-base properties through alkali metal additives are explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, demonstrate industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for the creation of active sites through the release of lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, facilitating propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising catalysts for PDH, boasting high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies focus on understanding and controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, thus enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process converting propane to propylene and hydrogen, faces challenges of catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies minimize coke formation, maintain activity at high temperatures, and utilize promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth oxides to boost robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape further improve catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, showing stability in PDH without gas-phase O2. Rodemerck et al. also noted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41, linking catalyst deactivation to VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for more efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods fall short, necessitating selective processes like propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high chromium dispersion, are ideal for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites enhance propene yield, with dealumination improving catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites increases propene formation rate.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing the issue of catalyst deactivation, which hinders the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and selectivity of PDH catalysts, reduce coke formation, and prevent the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) are among the approaches being developed. These methods not only improve the performance of PDH catalysts but also contribute to a better understanding of the deactivation mechanisms, leading to more effective and sustainable propylene production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods amid growing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are sought to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. However, detailed strategies remain underdeveloped in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, deactivation issues persist, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking processes, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a hurdle. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, targeting active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly boost catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ species interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance range of V-based catalysts varies significantly compared to Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt-based catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these challenges. This catalyst, tested under industrial conditions, shows three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, offering an environmentally compatible solution to enhance PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. It potentially reduces energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, PDH faces challenges with temperature and selectivity, leading to deactivation issues. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, while doped ceria shows promise for this purpose. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored, offering cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Despite progress, selectivity remains a challenge, especially with VOx catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, though effective, are costly, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues. Seeking lower energy consumption, researchers aim for low-temperature PDH methods. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM is developed, addressing deactivation challenges, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. This innovation opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, overcoming the energy-intensive conventional reaction mode.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, modifying carriers, and employing computational methods, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in PDH processes. These strategies aim to address the MVK mechanism's oxygen vacancy formation and the thermodynamic limitations of PDH, ensuring higher selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This highlights the importance of phase composition and crystallite size in PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. This approach enhances recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an alternative, converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure commercial viability. Promoters such as late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides increase robustness against coking, while optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size and shape improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on materials like mesoporous silica solids, γ-Al2O3, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the superior catalytic properties and stability of V-based catalysts, especially VOX/MCM-41, which can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlight the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, underscoring the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit remarkable long-term stability and recyclability in PDH, as evidenced by consistent propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH techniques, already in industrial use, face challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for additional benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. These low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable catalysts are ideal for industrial propylene production, addressing deactivation issues and meeting increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, which significantly impacts propene yield. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a key role. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive impact on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, ensuring sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a promising alternative. These methods convert propane to propylene, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. Key strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), which aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Pt-based catalysts, with their valence states impacting reactivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. However, catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, remains a significant issue. Separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity. These strategies collectively improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, making them a viable solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production techniques, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, thus optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, hindering full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored with O2 and CO2 as oxidants. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. CO2 cofeeding may increase coke deposition but can also gasify it. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals like Pt and Au are alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but they require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer an alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, highlighted in critical literature, show promise in enhancing selectivity and efficiency in PDH reactions, addressing stability and recyclability issues in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the core issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability by reducing VOx polymerization and coke formation. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 supports with controlled crystallization temperatures optimizes Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. Co-assembly in V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, improves V5+ interaction with silica, enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have issues with toxicity and regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst, with a role for defective OH groups, shows three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, addressing the need for stable and recyclable catalysts in the face of growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high surface area, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as alternatives. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To overcome these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, focusing on low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while highly active, face challenges including unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving the reaction of reducing reactants with highly reactive oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface, is crucial in oxidative PDH. However, the reaction products are easily over-oxidized, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. PDH is a kinetically controlled reaction, with the activation of the CH bond in propane as a rate-determining step, requiring higher temperatures. The nature of reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts remains complex, with side reactions needing consideration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, offering high propene selectivity. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are cost-effective and environmentally friendly. These catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active Zrcus sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly boosts catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Tuning hydroxyl group coverage on the catalyst surface balances activity and stability, improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include utilizing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining long-term activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters and optimal metal-support interactions further improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. V-based catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibited stable PDH performance in the absence of O2 and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, attributing this to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest that V-based catalysts are promising for commercial PDH processes, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrating superior activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH, maintaining high propene selectivity over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the use of reductive gases, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their improved catalytic activity and reduced side reactions, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative, with oxidative and nonoxidative processes gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites facilitates high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with industrial needs and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that can be calculated from geometric models, understanding the influence of Pt geometric sites on adsorption configurations, and the role of valence states of Pt in the reactivity of propane conversion. The challenge of deactivation, often due to coke formation, can be mitigated by controlling the interaction between intermediates and the catalyst surface, optimizing the electronic states of Pt to inhibit coke precursors, and employing strong metal-support interactions to prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles. These approaches aim to improve the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to combat deactivation, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, current technologies face deactivation issues, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full regeneration capabilities. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative, where an oxidant combusts hydrogen, enabling full paraffin conversion. O2 and CO2 are key oxidizing agents, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperatures but introducing overoxidation challenges, and CO2 being milder but less heat-producing. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity, needing further development for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges to optimize PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, affecting catalytic performance via Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, enhance V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, due to higher V3+ species proportions. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer an environmentally friendly solution. These catalysts, with active ZnOx species, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, aiming for lower-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, marking a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing issues like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies address deactivation challenges, improve selectivity, and control byproduct formation, supported by computational methods for catalyst screening and understanding C-H bond activation. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms, is central to oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the need for controlled oxygen activity and metal-oxide interfaces to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, offering high propene selectivity. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are cost-efficient and environmentally friendly. These catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This highlights the importance of phase composition and crystallite size in PDH performance, directly impacting the creation of coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations responsible for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are central to PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. Specifically, spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) were synthesized, achieving exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts have been shown to suppress coke deposition, improving stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH's effectiveness hinges on overcoming catalyst deactivation, a challenge addressed through innovative design strategies. These include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites, which promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, enhance resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies, particularly V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2 and Al2O3, are being explored. These catalysts, optimized through gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies show that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit high stability and can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, making V-based catalysts a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH's industrial implementation faces challenges, notably coke formation on Pt catalysts, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including hydrogen cofeeding, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, support modification, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, avoiding steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, making the ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is emerging as a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance in CO2-PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, a critical challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability by improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles. Alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions are among the approaches being explored to optimize PDH catalysts. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial for developing more stable and efficient PDH processes. Particle size and electronic states significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, with smaller particles increasing the fraction of active sites but also diversifying the local environments of exposed atoms. The interaction between intermediates and the catalyst's electronic properties plays a key role in selectivity and deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and sintering, which are primary causes of catalyst deactivation. These efforts are essential for improving catalyst performance and optimizing regeneration in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability, though detailed methodologies remain in progress.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too fast due to coke deposition, requiring further research for improvement. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored using O2 and CO2 as oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but poses overoxidation risks. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but they require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, metal-support interaction improvement, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration processes. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx. The new ZnO-based catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, with potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts, and the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion remains. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of costly, scarce, or detrimental Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts, which suffer from coking and cracking, and the high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode, researchers have developed a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. This method utilizes a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin reduces deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources with reduced energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing challenges like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on improving catalyst performance through the MVK mechanism and the control of oxygen sites to balance activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, making them superior to tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propene and shale-gas reserves, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are central to PDH advancements. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Synthesized cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) exhibit exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes. This approach balances activity and stability, leading to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and employing alloying elements are also crucial for improving catalyst stability and recyclability, ensuring PDH technologies remain commercially viable.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. V-based catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate high catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit full recovery with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species, making V-based catalysts a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces the challenge of coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate deactivation issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being developed, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to meet this demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals, which facilitates propylene desorption and inhibits deep dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity (Quote 14). Separating active metal components, such as the interaction between Pt and Cu, can suppress structure-sensitive side reactions and improve propylene selectivity (Quote 50). Pt/Cu single-atom alloys (SAAs) break scaling relationships and eliminate deep dehydrogenation, enhancing propylene selectivity up to 90% (Quote 55). Catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation (Quote 26), can be mitigated through the design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation (Quote 34), focusing on the modification of supports, metals, and treatments to prevent sintering and leaching, and to improve regeneration efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. While literature acknowledges the development of these strategies, specific details remain scarce.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored as a viable option. O2 and CO2, as oxidizing agents, each present distinct advantages and challenges. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2, while milder, results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by their improved selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P and Mg modifications of VOx/Al2O3, and the co-assembly process for V/SiO2 catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Temperature variations during preparation influence catalytic performance by affecting the distribution of surface V species and the amount of acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. The nature of the support and preparation methods are crucial for tuning the proportion and stability of the most active V species, impacting the overall performance of V-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these challenges. This catalyst, with a role for defective OH groups, shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, offering an environmentally compatible solution to enhance PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements, but faces challenges with alkene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Catalysts like VOx and NiOx-based ODH are being optimized for selectivity and activity. VOx phase nature is critical for performance, while NiOx catalysts explore electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, a novel PDH method at lower temperatures is sought to minimize energy use. A new approach uses microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) with a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, opening a pathway for efficient propane utilization at reduced temperatures. This innovative catalyst design, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin boosts stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, addresses the need for stable, recyclable catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism and the control of oxygen sites to balance activity and selectivity. Computational methods, including DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling, are utilized to understand catalyst performance and screen potential candidates. The complex nature of PDH mechanisms and pathways, including side reactions, underscores the need for continued research and development in this area.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. This highlights the importance of phase composition and crystallite size in PDH performance, directly impacting the creation of coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations responsible for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites, exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation, as demonstrated in a 10-hour reaction at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface, it is possible to balance activity and stability, leading to enhanced recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and using alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to exhibit stable PDH performance and full recovery with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. also highlighted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41, attributing it to the stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the severe impact of coke formation on the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH remains a critical challenge (Quote 3). Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). Computational simulations based on density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex reaction network of PDH, highlighting the need for an updated and systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts (Quotes 11 and 17). These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing the challenges posed by the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, with their well-defined structure and acidity, are used as supports for ZnO catalysts, improving catalytic activity and stability. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. These catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to address the limitations of steam cracking and catalytic cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high dispersion of chromium species, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites, like Cr(III)/Cr(II), are pivotal in the oxidative pathway. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive impact of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes. However, specific details of these strategies remain unspecified in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. [Quote 1] highlights the need for a better understanding of active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH. [Quote 2] discusses the clarification of active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. [Quote 3] points out the impact of particle size on the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments. [Quote 4] emphasizes the structure-sensitivity of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation. [Quote 5] illustrates the increase in under-coordinated atoms as metal particles shrink. [Quote 10] introduces the impact of Pt valence states on propane conversion. [Quote 11] provides an example of high propane conversion with singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2. [Quote 14] shows that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity. [Quote 15] underlines the influence of geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states on propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. [Quote 26] notes that the primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation. [Quote 33] suggests that inhibition of deactivation is crucial for designing catalytic systems with improved performance. [Quote 50] indicates that separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions and improve propylene selectivity. [Quote 53] demonstrates the promotional effect of Cu on the catalytic performance of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for PDH. [Quote 60] describes the impact of alloying on the surface electronic structure and reactivity. [Quote 63] explains how the addition of reducible metal oxides can improve catalytic stability and selectivity. [Quote 71] suggests that changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can positively affect coke elimination.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain unprovided.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues persist, mainly due to coke deposition, hindering full activity recovery. Innovative catalyst design is crucial for stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 and CO2, as oxidants, have distinct impacts: O2 prevents coke deposition but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer an alternative route. Innovative catalyst design, such as supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet the growing industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P and Mg modification improve stability and anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared through direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. VOx/ZrO2 shows enhanced performance from the reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an alternative to oil-based propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, shows three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, with similar selectivity, under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. However, achieving high alkene selectivity while increasing alkane conversion is challenging due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for efficient dehydrogenation. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. PDH techniques aim to overcome decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion, emphasizing the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. Efforts to design efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts explore electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms, inspired by homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to their cost, scarcity, toxicity, and susceptibility to coking and cracking over time. Moreover, the conventional reaction mode (CRM) for PDH is energy-intensive. To overcome these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH processes that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach involves the use of a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which opens a new route for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face issues like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies involve using single-atom catalysts to establish structure-reactivity relationships, modifying acid-base properties with alkali metals, and controlling oxygen site ratios to balance activity and selectivity. Metal-oxide interfaces and oxygen activity tuning are explored to reduce byproducts and improve selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, show industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase increase activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and limitations of traditional methods by converting abundant propane from shale-gas deposits. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their performance and earth's abundance, are being developed for PDH. An innovative design strategy, active site isolation, enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers supported on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) were synthesized, resulting in exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups, can help overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability in nonoxidative PDH processes. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts have been shown to improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, leading to better catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure catalyst robustness at high temperatures. The use of additional promoters, such as late transition metals and metal-support interactions, further boosts the catalyst's resistance to coking and maintains activity over extended periods, crucial for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, particularly those employing V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address catalyst deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial PDH processes. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to exhibit stable PDH properties and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, remains a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, including the use of reductive gases, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, converting propane directly to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, aid in dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts, low-cost, non-toxic, and reusable, are promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are proving insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a promising alternative, especially as selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) gain significance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield, with low acidity of SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity of AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, boosting stability, and enhancing recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. [Quote 10] highlights the impact of valence states on reactivity, while [Quote 50] demonstrates the effectiveness of separating active metal components to inhibit side reactions and improve propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. However, specific details on these strategies are scarce in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and the limitations of traditional methods. They are particularly relevant due to the economic advantage of natural gas over crude oil. While PDH using PtSn and CrOx catalysts is competitive, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but deactivate quickly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is promising; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity. Further research is needed to resolve these issues and improve PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer an alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking processes, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price advantage of propane. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, metal-support interaction improvement, and support modification, addressing the deactivation issue and aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Techniques like CADH synthesize high-surface-area Al2O3, affecting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance via Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, produces active V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offer an environmentally friendly solution. These catalysts, as evidenced by ZnOsilicalite-1, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, effectively addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the growing industrial demand. These techniques potentially reduce energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, higher temperatures, while increasing alkane conversion, decrease alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and doped ceria shows promise for this purpose. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed, and proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors could cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach uses a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This development aims to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, despite their high activity, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies. Oxygen replenishment completes the catalytic cycle. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, an added oxidant reacts with hydrogen, releasing heat. However, to achieve higher selectivity, the reaction must be conducted at lower temperatures. The activation of the CH bond in propane, a rate-determining step, necessitates higher temperatures. Ongoing research focuses on refining catalysts to address these issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, offering high propene selectivity and addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, show industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is crucial for creating active sites, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibiting higher activity and selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, utilizing abundant propane. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their performance and earth's cobalt abundance, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key deactivation issue, thereby enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. These strategies promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and enhance stability and recyclability. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial viability. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and main-group metals, improve resistance against coking. Optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements further enhance catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, focusing on innovative catalyst design strategies to address deactivation issues. V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, particularly when optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the high catalytic activity and stability of mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supported V-based catalysts, with the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. also confirm the superior catalytic properties of VOX species in the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles for PDH, with propane conversion showing a slow decrease from 55% to 45% over a 4h reaction duration, while propene selectivity remains at approximately 91%. These findings support the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate deactivation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to improve catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, making ZnO catalysts low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam cracking and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly in the presence of CO2, is gaining prominence. Innovative catalysts, like chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with their high thermal stability and large surface area, enable optimal dispersion of chromium species, vital for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are pivotal in the oxidative pathway, with the number of redox Cr sites directly impacting propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with SiBeta's low acidity favoring high propene selectivity and AlBeta's high acidity promoting propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals that Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites boost propene formation rate, unlike AlBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details of these strategies are not provided.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions. They aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as particle size decreases, impacting the dehydrogenation process. Active sites can be calculated from geometric models, and the geometric and electronic states of these sites significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The first CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, and the energy barriers for cracking and dehydrogenation are crucial. The primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to decreased catalytic activity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, separating active metal components can inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions, improving propylene selectivity. Alloying with promoters impacts the energies and availability of valence electrons, modulating surface electronic structure and reactivity. Modifying supports with metal oxides improves stability and selectivity by electron transfer. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also reduce coke formation. Strong metal-support interaction and confinement effects provided by supports can prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is effective for removing coke and reactivating catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. While specific strategies are not widely detailed in literature, efforts focus on improving both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is being developed to overcome thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes hydrogen but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions, but they require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by their improved selectivity and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing key deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues due to toxicity and regeneration needs. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts are developed for environmental compatibility, with ZnOx species formed in situ through OH group reactions. These catalysts, featuring defective OH groups for active ZnOx species, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, challenges arise as alkene selectivity decreases with temperature due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the design of proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes is being investigated. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being designed, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed. This method opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase as the catalyst support.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing issues of unsatisfactory selectivity, rapid deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving lattice oxygen, is crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation, but requires careful temperature control to prevent over-oxidation. The elusive nature of reaction mechanisms and side reactions necessitates further research. Strategies include single-atom catalysts for structure-reactivity relationships, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site ratio control for balanced activity and selectivity. Metal-oxide interfaces and oxygen activity tuning are explored to reduce byproducts and improve selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a major on-purpose production method. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating environmentally friendly and cost-efficient solutions for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are key in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A novel catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thus enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Designing catalysts with optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements is essential for maintaining activity over long periods and ensuring the commercial success of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In the context of growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH techniques, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackle catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, which exhibit superior catalytic properties and stability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in PDH reactions, with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, even after multiple regeneration cycles. V-based catalysts, particularly on Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports, show full recovery with oxidative regeneration, making them a viable option for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved catalytic activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, prompting the exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a selective process. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with the number of redox Cr sites correlating with yield up to 2wt % of Cr. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity of SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity of AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through novel design strategies that boost stability and recyclability. Innovative approaches are evolving to refine PDH processes, addressing key challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address the issue of catalyst deactivation, which is a major challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and recyclability of PDH catalysts by improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Key approaches include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, understanding the role of particle size in increasing the number of active sites, and the influence of geometric and electronic structures on propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation is crucial for improved performance, and strategies such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments are being explored to achieve this. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms and proposing effective strategies are essential for the advancement of PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, crucial in meeting rising industrial demand and navigating global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, current technologies need improvement in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but deactivate too fast due to coke deposition, with activity unrecoverable by regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Finding a suitable catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal. Solid oxygen carriers (CeO2, SbO4, In2O3, WO3, PbOx, Tl2O3, BiO3) and noble metals (Pt, Au) are alternatives for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates and toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of well-defined supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a cost-effective alternative for propylene production due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 exhibits anti-coking properties and higher propene yields. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 catalytic performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as stable supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr- or Pt-based catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making it a promising development in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, challenges arise due to decreased alkene selectivity with temperature increases. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, including the use of supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and the design of membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. However, conventional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, the direct PDH reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To address these challenges, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at low temperatures, offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources while reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing issues like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, characteristic of oxidative PDH, necessitates lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling are utilized to understand catalyst behavior and screen potential candidates, aiding in the development of more efficient and stable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a major on-purpose production method. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, showing industrial relevance in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size is crucial, as the ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zr cations, enhancing propene selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene by converting abundant shale-gas propane into propene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are developed for PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) show exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on understanding the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface, it is possible to balance activity and stability, leading to enhanced recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures and maintain long-term activity are crucial. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to enhance robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of V-based catalysts. These catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, exhibit superior catalytic properties for PDH, with VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2 showing high stability and recyclability. Studies reveal that optimizing gelation and calcination temperatures for VOX-SiO2 catalysts significantly enhances catalytic activity and stability, making V-based catalysts a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirmed the high catalytic activity and stability of V-based catalysts, with the latter's research showing full recovery of VOX/MCM-41 catalyst properties through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. also highlighted the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, further supporting the suitability of V-based catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, a proven industrial process for propylene production, faces challenges due to coke formation on Pt catalysts, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. Computational simulations using DFT provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and overcoming traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, avoiding steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve Zn species dispersion and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework are active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are proving insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP) processes. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, boosting stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, to meet evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the optimization of active sites, understanding deactivation mechanisms, and the impact of particle size on activity. For instance, smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also expose atoms to diverse local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. The challenge of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation is being addressed through the design of catalysts with specific geometric and electronic structures that inhibit coke formation and promote propylene desorption. Additionally, the use of bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports, metals, and treatments are being explored to inhibit deactivation, with a focus on preventing coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. These approaches aim to improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes by enhancing catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Specific details of these strategies remain unprovided in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues persist, mainly due to coke deposition, hindering full activity recovery. Innovative design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity and reaction rate issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production challenges, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have significantly advanced to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    