Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhance stability and recyclability in propylene production. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 supports optimizes VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance, with 12 wt% vanadium loading yielding high concentrations of isolated V3+ species, crucial for catalytic activity. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, achieving propene yields of 1927% over 6 h DDH reaction. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance, achieving high initial propene yield and stable selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with one of the highest VOx containing catalysts. VOx/ZrO2 is significantly more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. Preparation methods and support materials significantly influence catalyst performance, with moderate vanadium doping levels promoting highly dispersed vanadium species and isolated VOx active sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration challenges. An eco-friendly ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, emerges as a solution, with defective OH groups essential for active ZnOx species. This catalyst triples propene productivity compared to KCrOx/Al2O3, maintaining similar selectivity, marking a significant PDH advancement.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These advancements are crucial for overcoming catalyst deactivation challenges, improving efficiency, and meeting the increasing demand for propylene in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. Innovative strategies aim to develop new PDH methods at lower temperatures to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing the challenges of coking and cracking while reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt catalysts due to poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability from coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface, is pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation. Efforts to optimize catalyst performance focus on balancing activity and selectivity while minimizing byproduct formation, tackling thermodynamic limitations and side reactions in PDH systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a solution with high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and shale-gas abundance highlight PDH techniques as a viable solution. Cobalt-based catalysts, particularly CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrate exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Vanadium oxides are highlighted as effective PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups to prevent coke deposition, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on stability and recyclability, employing promoters like late transition metals and optimizing metal-support interactions, essential for PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing traditional limitations. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Bai et al. found V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 exhibit high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts maintain stable properties and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, highlighting VOX species' role in superior catalytic properties. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts show remarkable stability over cycles, supporting V-based catalysts' potential in commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face significant challenges, particularly coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke buildup, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn for enhanced benefits, and adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity and side reactions. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the escalating demand for propylene while overcoming the limitations of traditional methods. (Quotes 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 9)", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, making them cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as an alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, improving catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts, addressing deactivation challenges and making PDH a promising solution in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with rising industrial demand and evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Understanding the role of active sites and dehydrogenation pathways, as well as the impact of particle size on deactivation, is crucial. Innovative catalyst design, such as alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, is being explored to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. These approaches are essential for enhancing the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as evidenced by studies showing improved propylene selectivity and stability through the use of Pt/Cu single-atom alloys and the addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations have propelled PDH as a viable alternative, innovatively tackling catalyst deactivation through enhanced stability and recyclability strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH is a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by improved selectivity and efficiency, aligning with industrial needs and energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, nonoxidative PDH offers a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on propane's price advantage. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but recent strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification aids in anti-coking capabilities. Synthesis methods, such as CADH for Al2O3 and co-assembly for V/SiO2, optimize metal-support interactions, crucial for high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit high activity due to facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. These strategies significantly impact PDH processes, with the most active catalysts achieving STYs that, while less active than Pt catalysts, represent significant advancements.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, tackling the issues of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine regeneration in conventional catalysts. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, developed through reductive treatment, offers an environmentally friendly solution. The formation of active ZnOx species is facilitated by defective OH groups. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, this catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, while achieving similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. These techniques lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, making the process more efficient (quote 2). However, temperature increases lead to decreased alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome these issues, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes (quote 3). Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, and the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux at dehydrogenation temperatures is crucial (quote 10). Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored for improved efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer the potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts persists, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. The design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking. Seeking to reduce energy consumption, researchers aim for low-temperature PDH methods. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability. The use of Sn as a promoter in CoSn/NC catalysts increases lifetime by reducing deactivation by coking, offering a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving lattice oxygen, is pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation, requiring careful temperature control to prevent over-oxidation. These advancements address catalyst deactivation, improving efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, critical for propylene production, offer high propene selectivity, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability, significantly improving recyclability to meet industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging shale-gas-derived propane, address rising propylene demand and production constraints. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. Notably, the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, exemplifying innovative design for stability and deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Supported vanadium oxides act as efficient PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to prevent coke deposition, thus enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, overcoming limitations of traditional techniques. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, shape, and alloying elements, enhances stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting industrial demand and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative V-based catalysts. Bai et al. demonstrated high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. confirmed the potential for commercial PDH processes with VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, showing stable performance and full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintained high propane conversion and propene selectivity over eight cycles, highlighting remarkable long-term stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene has spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable production method (Quote 2). However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability (Quote 3). To address this, strategies such as reductive gas cofeeding, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, and adjusting catalyst size are being explored to reduce coke formation and enhance stability (Quotes 6, 7, 8). These advancements aim to meet the growing demand for propylene while addressing catalyst deactivation challenges (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional method limitations, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, addresses deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Structured acidity in zeolites disperses Zn species, reducing side reactions, while ZnO clusters, connected to the framework, act as active phases, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand forecasted to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, significantly enhances PDH processes, particularly in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance, with redox cycles involving Cr sites affecting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the impact of catalyst design on PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production alternative, tackling industrial demand and catalyst deactivation issues through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. SMSI, in particular, can be generated from chemical reactions at the metal-oxide interface, leading to highly stable PtSn clusters even at high temperatures. The confinement situation offered by supports can provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals and exert spatial constraints to avoid sintering. These approaches collectively aim to reduce coke formation, prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, and improve the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as evidenced by studies showing improved selectivity and stability. [Quote 10] highlights the impact of valence states on reactivity, while [Quote 31] emphasizes the importance of insights into deactivation mechanisms for designing more stable catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies to boost stability and recyclability, aligning with rising industrial demand and evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Current dehydrogenation technologies, including PtSn and CrOx catalysts, face challenges like fast deactivation due to coke deposition. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have not proven viable, deactivating too quickly. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored with O2 and CO2 as oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability. Further research is essential to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and production limitations have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, in particular, are critical for improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Innovative design strategies, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are pivotal in improving stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues and aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternatives to traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, increase V5+ interaction with silica, enhancing activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts, showcasing the ongoing efforts in catalyst design to meet industrial demands. Studies show that P modification can retain high activity after DDH reactions, Mg modification improves anti-coking capability, and VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, addressing oil-based process limitations. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts encounter toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offers environmental compatibility and superior performance, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions compared to conventional catalysts, as demonstrated in testing against a commercial benchmark.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements but faces challenges like decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Conventional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, and prone to deactivation, with high energy consumption. Innovative strategies aim for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy use. A breakthrough involves a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This development targets deactivation issues, stability enhancement, and recyclability improvement in PDH processes, addressing the need for energy-efficient methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges with propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These approaches aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with the catalyst's surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant can break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to prevent over-oxidation, a critical consideration in optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, critical for on-purpose propylene production, offer high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, outperform tetragonal ZrO2, enhancing activity and selectivity. The catalyst's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1 with isolated active sites, demonstrate exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, including the control of surface structure and leveraging surface-bound hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on robust catalysts using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to resist coking, optimizing metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size and shape for enhanced stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable solution. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids, notably γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, demonstrate enhanced stability and recyclability, maintaining high propene selectivity (~91%) and long-term stability over multiple cycles. The VOX/MCM-41 catalyst's full recovery with oxidative regeneration highlights its commercial PDH potential, addressing deactivation challenges through innovative design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, coke formation significantly hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH (Quote 3), necessitating innovative strategies. Approaches like adding reductive gases such as hydrogen (Quote 6) and alloying Pt with metals like tin (Sn) (Quote 7) are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. A systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH is recognized as crucial for improving catalyst performance (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by ZnO catalysts on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, tackles deactivation issues. These zeolites disperse Zn species, minimizing side reactions, and produce active ZnO clusters under precise conditions, enhancing stability and recyclability. The resulting catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is essential for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their high thermal and acid stability, facilitate high chromium dispersion, improving catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, as demonstrated by the positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in processes, catering to growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that balance selectivity and stability, understanding deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and employing design approaches like alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions. For instance, smaller particle sizes can increase the number of active sites but also lead to diverse local environments that affect reactivity. The challenge is to optimize the fraction of certain active sites to prevent side reactions that cause deactivation. Understanding the role of Pt geometric sites and electronic states is key to controlling propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to improve catalyst performance. For example, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can enhance stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as the addition of H2 or CO2, can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst life. The confinement of metal clusters within supports can also prevent sintering and maintain catalyst activity at high temperatures. These design strategies aim to create more stable and efficient PDH catalysts that can meet the demands of the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method amid growing demand and traditional method limitations. Ongoing research targets catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, underscoring the need for innovative design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx facing deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperature but risking overoxidation (Quote 8). CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues (Quote 19), needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints on traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its economic viability, thermally-induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent innovations focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes high-surface-area Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability. Mg addition enhances anti-coking capabilities, boosting catalytic activity. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high dispersion and stability of VOx species, achieving high initial propane conversion and propene selectivity. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 show improved performance due to the influence of acid sites and the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial, affecting metal-support interactions and VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts by about 34 times.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital eco-friendly alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of oil-based cracking. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues with Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine-based regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, overcomes these challenges. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst exhibits three times higher propene productivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, with similar propene selectivity, highlighting its potential for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, offering energy efficiency and addressing limitations of traditional methods. Increased temperatures can decrease alkene selectivity, but oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) lowers energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. The design of NiOx-based ODH catalysts is also explored, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are advancing. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, while effective, are costly, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing the need for cost-effective and sustainable propylene production methods. This approach, with cobalt as the active site, Sn as the promoter, and carbon nitride as the support, enhances stability and recyclability, overcoming deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have led to propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being widely used despite issues like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These approaches address catalyst deactivation and improve performance, crucial for meeting the growing demand for propylene and adapting to the changing global energy landscape. The MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, is central to the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, highlighting the need for lower temperatures to achieve higher selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, offering high propene selectivity. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, creating active sites that enhance activity and selectivity to propene. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 are critical, facilitating the creation of coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations, essential for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH techniques, notably cobalt-based catalysts, offer a viable alternative to traditional methods. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques using vanadium oxides emerge as alternatives. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling hydroxyl group coverage to balance activity and stability, suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thus enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides resist coking, while optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size maintain activity at high temperatures, ensuring PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH using V-based catalysts, notably VOX-SiO2, offers a viable alternative. Supported on mesoporous solids, these catalysts exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintain high propene selectivity over eight cycles, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative to traditional production methods. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face significant deactivation challenges, particularly due to coke formation, which undermines performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies to address these issues include the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst (Quote 9). These advancements aim to improve catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand for propylene. There is a need for a systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH, which is crucial for understanding reactivity and stability (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These zeolites disperse Zn species, reduce side reactions, and produce low-cost, non-toxic, reusable ZnO catalysts, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand for propylene of 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, significantly enhances PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with high thermal and acid stability, facilitate high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity promotes high selectivity to propene, and switching between PDH with and without CO2 over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites enhances propene formation, underscoring the catalysts' effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in processes, meeting growing demand amidst conventional production constraints.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, which show superior activity and selectivity but require a fundamental understanding of active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms. Particle size is crucial, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments. Electronic states of the catalyst significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Design strategies aim to inhibit deactivation through the modification of supports, metals, and treatments, focusing on the prevention of coke formation, which is the primary cause of catalyst deactivation. By understanding and manipulating the geometric and electronic structures of catalysts, researchers can design more stable and selective PDH catalysts, optimizing performance and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable solution for growing propylene demand, overcoming traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are evolving to tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Literature highlights the need for detailed strategies in catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, overcoming traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts enable competitive processes but face challenges like deactivation and stability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate rapidly due to coke, needing research for stability enhancement. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic constraints but introduces overoxidation and heat management issues. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion potential but require frequent regeneration and address toxicity concerns. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical, as highlighted by the need for comprehensive catalyst comparison and the exploration of solid oxygen carriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling catalyst deactivation with innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH processes boost stability, recyclability, selectivity, and efficiency, addressing industrial demand and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and oil-based cracking limitations, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are revolutionizing propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovations in catalyst design, particularly for VOx/Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability. Optimizing crystallization temperature boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites and affecting surface V species distribution. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to increased V3+ species. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, is environmentally compatible and reveals three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, making it a promising solution to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making processes more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx phase nature is critical for performance, and NiOx-based catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, though effective, are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Seeking low-temperature PDH to reduce energy use, researchers have developed a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts. This innovation, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as support, opens new avenues for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts being highly active but susceptible to poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, is pivotal in oxidative PDH. These strategies aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve selectivity through controlled oxygen sites and metal-oxide interfaces, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity and tackle deactivation issues through innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for propane activation, by improving PDH performance through optimized phase composition and crystallite size, facilitating lattice oxygen release and creating active Zrcus sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising propene demand and shale-gas reserves highlight PDH as a viable propylene production method. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation boosting catalytic performance. Notably, CoOx@NC/S-1 achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH using vanadium oxides emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies target the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, notably employing surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 to suppress coke deposition, a key deactivation factor, thereby enhancing stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, targeting minimized coke formation and deactivation, ensures PDH's commercial viability. Robust catalysts, developed with promoters and optimized metal-support interactions, enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are gaining prominence as an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports, such as γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, demonstrate enhanced stability and recyclability. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts stable for PDH without gas-phase O2, fully recoverable with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed VOX/MCM-41's superior catalytic properties, indicating its potential for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showed remarkable long-term stability over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles, highlighting advancements in overcoming deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production. Catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, addressing industrial demand. Innovative ZnO catalysts supported by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, and are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion on SiBeta zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance, achieving high propene selectivity above 80%. This approach aligns with the growing industrial need for propylene and the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal in tackling deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, directly addressing propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. However, catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge, leading to the development of innovative design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on overcoming deactivation issues through the optimization of active site structures and understanding dehydrogenation mechanisms. The fraction of certain active sites increases with smaller metal particles, and Pt-based catalysts have shown promise in propylene production, underscoring the importance of these strategies in addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling limitations of conventional techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability, crucial in the face of growing industrial demand and shifting energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for meeting growing propylene demand, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Challenges include rapid deactivation of alternative catalysts due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces issues like overoxidation and heat management (Quotes 5, 9, 11). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require addressing catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity for industrial viability (Quotes 16, 19, 20). Further research is essential to develop effective catalysts and reaction systems (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and traditional cracking limitations highlight the promise of PDH techniques, particularly nonoxidative PDH, due to the price disparity between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, aim to improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH for mesoporous Al2O3 synthesis increases Lewis acid sites, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to direct co-assembly. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 properties. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and VOx/ZrO2 show promise as supports due to high surface area, thermal stability, and production of active V3+ species. Catalyst design must consider support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of toxic Cr and regeneration-requiring Pt catalysts. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, forming ZnOx species through reductive treatment, overcomes these challenges. Under industrial conditions, it demonstrates three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, as per comparative studies with commercial catalysts, making it a promising solution for enhanced PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Higher temperatures increase alkane conversion but decrease alkene selectivity due to side reactions. Supported oxides of p-block metals show promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are crucial for efficiency. Doped ceria enhances selectivity, and the type and geometry of the membrane impact reactor efficiency. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges include decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion and the critical nature of the VOx phase for catalyst performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed. This non-precious catalyst, functioning under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), enables direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, significantly reducing energy consumption. The innovation opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C, faces challenges with Pt catalysts, including poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies, is crucial for understanding the reaction pathway. Temperature control is essential for high selectivity, with ongoing research focusing on reaction pathways and side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address rising industrial demand for propylene. Innovatively designed ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring the monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes, enhance stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues and boosting PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH techniques utilizing cobalt catalysts are crucial. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as exemplified by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxide catalysts, offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, prevent coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, with late transition metals and optimized metal-support interactions, sustain activity at high temperatures, crucial for commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, addressing thermodynamic constraints and carbon deposition. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 enhance stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for processing conditions, exhibit superior activity and stability, making them a promising choice. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showcase high stability and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, underscoring the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, already utilized in industry. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn), modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting the urgent need for propylene in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, converting propane directly. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-assisted PDH, is a promising solution. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields effective catalysts, with SiBeta's low acidity favoring high propene selectivity. The number of redox Cr sites correlates with propene yield, underlining the importance of redox cycles in the CO2-PDH mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability, aligning with rising industrial demand and evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts with optimized active sites and dehydrogenation pathways. Particle size and coordination numbers significantly influence the fraction of active sites, impacting the selectivity and stability of the catalysts. Deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, are major concerns, but can be mitigated through the design of specific reaction ensembles and the modification of supports and metals. For instance, the use of single-atom alloys and intermetallic compounds can improve propylene selectivity by inhibiting deep dehydrogenation side reactions. Additionally, the incorporation of reducible metal oxides and the adjustment of reaction conditions, such as H2 and CO2 cofeeding, can reduce coke formation and enhance catalyst stability. The strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) and confinement effects provided by supports like CeO2 and mesoporous materials also play a critical role in preventing sintering and maintaining the dispersion of active metals. These design strategies are essential for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, critical for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the industrial demand for propylene, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures, but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability. Further research is necessary to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts notably enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes, directly tackling industrial demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. To tackle thermal deactivation, a key PDH challenge, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed. These focus on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aiming to boost stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies. P modification and Mg addition enhance stability by reducing VOx polymerization and coke formation. CADH for Al2O3 synthesis and direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts improve V species interaction and dispersion. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst performance is influenced by support materials, preparation methods, and the proportion of active V species, with the most active V-based catalysts achieving significant STYs, albeit less than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of oil-based cracking. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues, prompting the development of eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed at high temperatures, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, effectively tackling deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by offering energy efficiency. Challenges include temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity, with oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) showing potential to lower energy requirements. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria is promising for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Achieving sufficient propene yield remains a challenge, with the nature of the VOx phase being critical for VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, researchers are developing new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin acts as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, opening a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, utilizing endothermic reactions with Pt- and Cr-based catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while active, struggle with poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, or lattice oxygen mechanism, is pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies. This mechanism is crucial for overcoming thermodynamic limitations in PDH, requiring careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. The activation of the CH bond in propane, a rate-determining step, necessitates higher temperatures, highlighting the need for efficient catalyst design to meet global energy demands.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design tackles deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts effectively activate propane, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase showing higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and shale-gas reserves have spotlighted PDH as a viable propylene production method. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, as demonstrated by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst. This catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation, thanks to active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH using supported vanadium oxides emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies optimize surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides bolster resistance to coking, crucial for PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts show high activity and stability, while optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit notable long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing over cycles while maintaining high propene selectivity. These advancements underscore the potential of V-based catalysts in commercial PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale production. However, coke formation on platinum (Pt) catalysts significantly hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like tin, and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst, are being developed to mitigate coke formation. These approaches aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring the technique's effectiveness in meeting the increasing demand for propylene. A systematic account of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH is needed to further enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address rising industrial demand for propylene by directly converting propane, using ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to tackle deactivation. These catalysts, with small ZnO clusters, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues and boosts stability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are optimal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, as demonstrated by the correlation between the number of redox Cr sites and propene yield up to 2wt % of Cr. The well-correlation between redox Cr sites and propene yield highlights the effectiveness of this design strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints highlight PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, tackling deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as ongoing research aims to optimize these methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, single-atom alloys, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions and improve propylene selectivity. For instance, the interaction between Pt and Cu has been shown to elevate the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitate propylene desorption. The addition of reducible metal oxides, such as TiO2, improves catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying the acidity of supports, like alumina, with alkaline promoters can curb support acidity and reduce coke formation. Changes in reaction conditions, such as co-feeding hydrogen and CO2, can also positively impact coke elimination. The confinement of metal nanoparticles within zeolite frameworks provides thermal stability and prevents sintering. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by hydrogen reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts. These strategies collectively aim to improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes by overcoming catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical solution for growing propylene demand, tackling limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, reflecting ongoing research efforts in the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have been pivotal, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Innovative design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 and CO2 as oxidants overcomes thermodynamic limitations, with O2 preventing coke deposition but requiring careful management to avoid overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but produces less heat. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity must be resolved for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. Notably, supported vanadium oxide catalysts address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, optimizing propylene production efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and oil-based cracking limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, with catalyst design strategies enhancing stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification decreases coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. Innovative synthesis methods, like CADH for Al2O3 and co-assembly for V/SiO2, increase surface area and active species, leading to higher activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile reduction of VO bonds, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability, with the nature of the support and preparation methods significantly influencing the proportion and stability of active V species, affecting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions, offers an environmentally friendly solution. Demonstrated by ZnOsilicalite-1, this catalyst achieves three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. Challenges with temperature and selectivity persist, but innovative catalyst design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of this approach depends on the membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed, potentially offering electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. These strategies address the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion and the critical nature of the VOx phase in VOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address traditional method limitations by utilizing a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This novel approach reduces energy consumption and overcomes deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, effectively utilizing abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, utilizing Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including selectivity, deactivation, and stability at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping and carrier modification, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies focus on the MVK mechanism to balance activity and selectivity, avoiding thermodynamic limitations and managing side reactions, thus improving the efficiency of PDH in meeting industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, crucial for meeting rising propylene demand, advance through innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design. Optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes boost propene selectivity and activity, while ZrO2's ability to create active sites improves stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing cobalt-based catalysts, address the growing demand for propylene by converting shale-gas propane. Cobalt's abundance and performance make it a promising choice for PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as highlighted in quote [3], enhances catalytic performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, a catalyst synthesized through a two-step process (quote [4]), exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, as noted in quote [5], showing no deactivation after 10 hours at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques, notably using vanadium oxide catalysts, offer a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, effectively suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on optimal metal-support interactions and the use of additional promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements aim to optimize selective dehydrogenation and reduce coke formation, crucial for commercial PDH technologies, ensuring robust catalysts withstand high temperatures and maintain activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrated the superior properties of VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2 catalysts in PDH reactions, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes, maintaining high propene selectivity and long-term stability across multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative for large-scale production. PDH, already industrialized, encounters catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, impacting platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies, such as hydrogen cofeeding, Pt alloying with metals like tin, support modification, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts, are being developed to mitigate deactivation. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, address industrial demand for propylene by enhancing stability and recyclability. Structured acidity in these zeolites disperses Zn species, reducing side reactions. Active phases, small ZnO clusters, are produced under controlled conditions, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for propylene production, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly CO2-assisted PDH, are pivotal in meeting industrial needs. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses catalyst deactivation challenges by enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-PDH, where redox chromium species are crucial for propene yield. The acidity of zeolite substrates like SiBeta and AlBeta significantly influences catalytic properties, affecting selectivity and propane cracking, with SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations underscore PDH's viability. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, optimizing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address the issue of catalyst deactivation, which is a significant challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance the stability and recyclability of PDH catalysts by improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles. Key approaches include the use of alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create specific reaction ensembles, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to stabilize nanoparticles. These advancements are crucial for improving the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes in the context of changing global energy landscapes. As [Quote 10] and [Quote 11] show, the valence states of Pt (Pt0 or Ptx+) have a significant impact on the reactivity of propane conversion, and that single-dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% conversion of propane. [Quote 26] emphasizes that the primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation, which can be inhibited by strategies such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments as [Quote 34] suggests. [Quote 49] summarizes effective strategies for inhibiting coke, including separating active metal components to improve propylene selectivity as [Quote 50] demonstrates. [Quote 60] and [Quote 61] show that alloying with diverse promoters can modulate the surface electronic structure and reactivity, while [Quote 63] highlights the role of reducible metal oxides in improving catalytic stability and selectivity. [Quote 70] suggests that changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination. [Quote 89] and [Quote 90] discuss the importance of strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) in preventing sintering, while [Quote 97] and [Quote 100] show that confinement situations offered by supports can provide high surface areas for dispersing active metals and prevent sintering. [Quote 111] highlights the effectiveness of regenerating catalysts under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction to remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation challenges, enhancing stability and recyclability, as highlighted in relevant literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts, notably metal oxides, face deactivation due to coke deposition, as highlighted in quote 3, necessitating ongoing research. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2, as mentioned in quotes 8 and 11, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, discussed in quote 19, are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity, as noted in quote 19, hinder industrial application. Innovative design strategies are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, aiming to resolve these issues for industrial viability, as emphasized in quote 20.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a highlighted strategy, enhance selectivity and efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing stability and recyclability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production challenges, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price advantage of propane over propylene. Key challenges, such as thermally induced catalyst deactivation, are being addressed through innovative design strategies focusing on active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by innovating catalyst design. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg addition boosts anti-coking properties. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 increases Lewis acid sites, improving catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs strengthens V5+ interaction with silica, achieving high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, produces more V3+ species, crucial for high activity. Catalyst design considers support nature, influencing metal-support interactions and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of toxic Cr- and ecologically harmful Pt-based catalysts. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through high-temperature reactions, offer about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, effectively addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as demonstrated under industrially relevant conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient (Quote 2). Challenges include decreased alkene selectivity with higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, including supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 10), doped ceria for higher selectivity (Quote 11), and membrane reactors with high surface area for efficient cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy (Quote 14). However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts persists (Quote 22), highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms (Quotes 32, 33). Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these issues, researchers have developed a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, offering a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovative catalyst design, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce coking, and carbon nitride as support, addresses deactivation challenges, enhances stability, and improves recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts but faces challenges like poor selectivity, deactivation, and instability at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism is central to oxidative dehydrogenation, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. To overcome thermodynamic limitations, added oxidants react with hydrogen, releasing heat, but higher selectivity requires lower temperatures. Research is exploring single-atom catalysts and acid-base property modifications to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, notably using ZrO2-based catalysts optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity, selectivity to propene, and overall PDH performance, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, particularly CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibit superior PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, thanks to an innovative active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Supported vanadium oxides act as efficient PDH catalysts, with surface-bound hydroxyl groups crucial in suppressing coke deposition, a primary cause of deactivation. Optimizing hydroxyl group coverage ensures a balance between activity and stability, enhancing catalyst recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional method limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, address deactivation by promoting selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation, and ensuring robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures and maintain activity over time, directly tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable solution. V-based catalysts, supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, notably VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41, demonstrate enhanced stability and recyclability. Bai et al. showed high activity with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH performance and full recovery through oxidative regeneration for VOX/MCM-41. Rodemerck et al. confirmed VOX/MCM-41's superior catalytic properties, highlighting its commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative for large-scale production, as highlighted in quote [1] and [2]. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face significant deactivation issues, primarily due to coke formation, as mentioned in quote [3]. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this challenge, including the addition of reductive gases (quote [6]), alloying Pt with metals like Sn (quote [7]), modifying supports (quote [8]), adjusting Pt catalyst size (quote [9]), and exploring single atom Pt catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, meeting the growing demand for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making the ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield, as evidenced by studies showing the correlation between redox sites and propene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints highlight PDH techniques as a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design strategies tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing key challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. The evolution of PDH techniques focuses on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller metal particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify local environments, affecting reactivity (Quote 3). Understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is crucial. Strategies include alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions to enhance selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent metal agglomeration (Quote 51). These approaches improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH catalysts, making them more suitable for industrial use in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, especially amid evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting growing propylene demand, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Despite progress with PtSn and CrOx catalysts, issues persist with noble metal loading, stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, affecting olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being studied for selective hydrogen combustion, but catalyst regeneration and toxicity issues need resolution for industrial viability. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is key for effective oxidative dehydrogenation of paraffins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by enhanced selectivity and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements focus on design strategies including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming catalyst deactivation. P and Mg modification enhance stability and recyclability, with P reducing VOx polymerization and Mg decreasing coke deposits. CADH for Al2O3 and co-assembly for V/SiO2 increase surface area and active species, boosting activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, due to facile VO reduction, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution, crucial for optimal VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt have drawbacks, including toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst preparation method offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst forms ZnOx species through reductive treatment, with defective OH groups playing a key role. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the new catalyst triples propene productivity while maintaining similar selectivity, effectively addressing industrial demand and environmental issues.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. Challenges include decreased alkene selectivity with temperature increases due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, utilizing supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux and surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer cogeneration potential. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts and the critical nature of the VOx phase for VOx-based catalysts are ongoing challenges. Investigation of NiOx-based ODH catalysts with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms is underway. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking, with high energy consumption. Innovative strategies aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM has been introduced, offering a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing key challenges in PDH processes, including coking and cracking, while reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, employs Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being highly active but susceptible to poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. To address these issues, innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, is pivotal in oxidative PDH. Advanced catalysts, including single-atom catalysts (SACs) and those with controlled oxygen sites, are being explored to improve overall PDH efficiency and overcome thermodynamic limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and production limitations, PDH emerges as a key method, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design tackles deactivation issues, enhancing activity and selectivity by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes improve performance, while ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites for propane activation, demonstrating adaptability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH techniques utilizing shale-gas propane are pivotal. Cobalt-based catalysts, exemplified by CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibit outstanding PDH performance: achieving 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius. Active site isolation strategies significantly boost catalytic performance, crucial for long-term utility in evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of conventional methods. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as catalysts due to their activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies, focusing on hydroxyl groups, improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, directly addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, minimizes coke formation, tackling deactivation. Promoters enhance stability and recyclability, critical for commercial success. Robust catalysts maintain activity at high temperatures, ensuring long-term performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH using V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Studies show high activity and stability in V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, with full recovery and VOX species stability through oxidative regeneration. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts exhibit superior catalytic properties in PDH, overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition, making V-based catalysts a promising option for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, encounters challenges with Pt catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. Innovative strategies, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation, improve recyclability, and enhance stability in PDH processes, directly addressing the challenges posed by increasing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, converting propane directly to propylene, address rising industrial demand and traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites disperse Zn species, minimizing side reactions and producing active ZnO clusters, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly in the presence of O2 or CO2, are emerging as critical solutions. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is essential for tackling deactivation issues. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr species are vital in the oxidative pathway, with redox Cr sites significantly influencing propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of catalyst design on PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively meeting production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are addressing these challenges through innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts are being optimized for particle size to increase active sites and manage diverse local environments. Side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation are being mitigated by designing selective active sites that favor propylene production. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals facilitate propylene desorption and inhibit deep dehydrogenation, enhancing propylene selectivity. Inhibiting deactivation through support modification, metal properties, and treatment changes, such as the addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 and cofeeding H2 and CO2, reduces coke formation and enhances stability. Confinement of Pt clusters within supports like zeolites and strong metal-support interactions prevent sintering and maintain stability at high temperatures. These design strategies are crucial for the evolution of PDH as a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. PtSn and CrOx catalysts are pivotal, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke, necessitating stability enhancement. Oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic constraints but introduces overoxidation and heat formation issues. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion, yet require resolution of catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints have led to the adoption of PDH techniques as a viable solution. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a pivotal innovation, address deactivation challenges, improving stability and recyclability, and boosting propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a hurdle, but innovative PDH catalyst design strategies, focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Crystallization temperature of Al2O3 supports affects the distribution of surface V species, impacting catalytic performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, with high proportions of active V3+ species. Support nature is crucial in catalyst design, influencing metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts. Specific examples include the cationanion double hydrolysis approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification decreasing VOx polymerization, and Mg modification reducing coke deposits. V-DMSNs show high catalytic activity and stability, and VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit enhanced performance due to higher proportions of active V3+ species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through reductive treatment, are environmentally friendly and rely on defective OH groups for active ZnOx species formation. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the ZnO-based catalyst shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, overcoming deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. ODH reduces energy requirements, hinging on innovative catalyst and process design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, with doped ceria showing enhanced selectivity. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are developed for efficiency in dehydrogenation processes. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors explore the cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face challenges with decreased propene selectivity at higher alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may guide the development of efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a solution. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst addresses these issues by operating at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption. This innovation opens a new route for efficient propane utilization. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to minimize coking, offers enhanced stability and recyclability, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, is central to oxidative PDH, requiring careful temperature control to maximize selectivity and avoid over-oxidation. Techniques like single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modifications, and oxygen site ratio control are being developed to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing ZrO2-based catalysts, offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand with high propene selectivity. Optimizing phase composition towards the monoclinic phase and reducing crystallite size enhances catalyst performance, increasing activity and selectivity. Reductive treatment releases lattice oxygen, creating active Zr cations essential for propane activation, addressing deactivation challenges and improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial. Active site isolation enhances performance, as exemplified by CoOx@NC/S-1, which achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, resisting deactivation for 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH using vanadium oxide catalysts offers a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, a major deactivation cause. Tuning hydroxyl group coverage enhances stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To combat catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are pivotal, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites. These advancements promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts withstand high temperatures, maintaining activity for commercial PDH technologies. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size enhances stability and recyclability, addressing sustainability in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques, particularly V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3, offer a viable solution. These catalysts, known for cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness, exhibit superior stability and recyclability. Bai et al. confirmed high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts maintained stability in PDH without gas-phase O2, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, due to VOX species' high stability. Rodemerck et al. also underscored VOX/MCM-41's catalytic superiority, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showing remarkable long-term stability over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, coke formation significantly hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH (Quote 3). To address this, innovative strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, directly addressing the challenges posed by increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, addressing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These cost-effective, reusable catalysts are vital for propylene production in evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, forecasted to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites boosting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 enhances propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. Further research is needed to fully exploit PDH's potential in propylene production, underscoring the critical challenge of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are addressing the challenge of deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and promote redispersion of metal nanoparticles. Understanding deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is crucial for developing effective strategies to maintain catalyst performance and recyclability in PDH processes. For instance, singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, highlighting the potential of isolated active sites. Moreover, the interaction between Pt and Cu can elevate the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitate propylene desorption, improving selectivity. The addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also positively affect coke elimination and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations underscore PDH's promise. A research gap exists on innovative catalyst design to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. This highlights the need for advanced catalyst design to fully exploit PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of conventional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. Alternative catalysts, including GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, struggle with deactivation due to coke deposition, underscoring the need for ongoing research. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic constraints but introduces new challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues such as catalyst regeneration and toxicity must be resolved for industrial application. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, crucial for the future of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable propylene production alternative, addressing growing demand and traditional constraints. Notably, supported vanadium oxide catalysts innovatively tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet growing propylene demand, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH method for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, show that crystallization temperature affects catalytic performance by influencing the distribution of surface V species. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly in V/SiO2 catalysts increases V5+ species interaction with silica, leading to high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' influence on surface VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts exhibit STYs less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing oil-based process limitations. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts tackle deactivation issues, offering environmental compatibility. These catalysts, formed through reductive treatment, demonstrate triple the propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing enhanced stability and recyclability for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements for dehydrogenation. Catalyst deactivation challenges are being tackled through innovative design strategies, such as supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of this approach depends on the membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts, crucial for meeting industrial demand and adapting to changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques offer a promising alternative. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for PDH processes at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This development addresses the need for a new PDH method that can operate at lower temperatures and reduce energy consumption, while the CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter, enhances stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being dominant despite challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, governing oxidative dehydrogenation, highlights the importance of oxygen vacancies in the catalytic cycle, guiding the design of catalysts that balance activity and selectivity. Advanced catalyst design, including single-atom catalysts and controlled oxygen sites, is explored to reduce byproducts and improve selectivity, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. These catalysts, known for high propene selectivity and cost-efficiency, can enhance their activity and selectivity through optimized phase composition and crystallite size. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is critical for creating active sites, improving catalyst performance in PDH processes, thus addressing deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, noted for their abundance and effectiveness, are crucial in PDH processes. The active site isolation strategy, exemplified by spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1), significantly enhances performance. This catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability and high propene selectivity, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, mitigate deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups suppress coke deposition, a critical factor in deactivation, improving catalyst stability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on stability and recyclability, employing promoters like late transition metals and optimizing metal-support interactions. These strategies ensure the commercial viability of PDH technologies by resisting coking and enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, with V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. demonstrated high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. and Rodemerck et al. reported stable PDH properties and superior catalytic performance for VOX/MCM-41 under oxidative regeneration, underscoring V-based catalysts' commercial potential. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibited notable long-term stability over eight cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% and propene selectivity remaining at about 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges due to coke formation, which hampers platinum catalyst performance and stability. Innovative strategies, including hydrogen cofeeding, alloying platinum with tin, modifying catalyst supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the escalating demand for propylene. An updated and systematic account of coke formation on platinum catalysts is crucial for further improvements in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, employing ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, address industrial demand for propylene by enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity, dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected 130 million tonne demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-assisted PDH, emerges as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Chromium-containing Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-PDH. The number of redox Cr sites correlates well with propene yield, up to 2wt % of Cr, highlighting the effectiveness of these catalysts. Low acidity promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity can lead to propane cracking into lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the impact of acidity on selectivity and propene yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with growing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a propylene production method addresses the limitations of traditional techniques, particularly through innovative catalyst design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge, is tackled by understanding the active sites and dehydrogenation pathways on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Particle size impacts the fraction of active sites, with smaller particles increasing the number of under-coordinated atoms, which can lead to side reactions and deactivation. Electronic states of Pt ions influence propylene production selectivity, with Ptx+ ions excelling in propane conversion but not selective for propylene. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals show higher propylene selectivity by facilitating propylene desorption and increasing the barrier for deep dehydrogenation. Design strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, which exhibit a linear relationship between selectivity and activity, indicating that selectivity decreases with increased activity. Catalyst deactivation is primarily due to coke formation, which covers active sites and blocks reactant access. Strategies to inhibit deactivation involve modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and sintering of Pt nanoparticles. For instance, the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts improves propylene selectivity and reduces coke by elevating the energy barrier for CC bond breaking and facilitating C3H6 desorption. Alloying with promoters like Zn modulates surface electronic structure, enhancing C3H6 selectivity. Reducible metal oxides like TiO2 improve stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying Al2O3 supports with metal oxides reduces acidity and modulates Pt dispersion and electronic properties. Changes in reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also reduce coke formation. Strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) and confinement effects provided by supports like CeO2 and mesoporous materials prevent sintering and enhance stability. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is effective for removing coke and reactivating catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, facing challenges with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates. Further research is needed to resolve these issues for viable industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts play a critical role in addressing deactivation challenges, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, making PDH processes more efficient and sustainable.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, enhance stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    