Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address challenges in propylene production by enhancing stability and recyclability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3 supports, affecting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance through the distribution of surface V species. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and boosts catalytic performance. The V/SiO2 catalyst (1:12 mass ratio) achieves superior initial propene yield (59.5%) and stable selectivity (90%). Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high initial propane conversion (18.1%) and propene selectivity (91%). VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Preparation methods and synthesis strategies are crucial for forming well-defined support structures and active sites. The role of other V species in the DDH reaction requires further investigation. The range of V-based catalyst performance varies, with the most active exhibiting space time yields (STYs) 34 times less active than the most active Pt catalysts. Preparation conditions significantly influence catalyst performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of oil-based processes. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer an environmentally compatible solution. These catalysts, featuring active ZnOx species, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, as evidenced in industrial tests against commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored, with the potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts, and the design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts is being investigated. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. However, conventional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, the direct propane dehydrogenation reaction consumes more energy under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed for the first time. This opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, reducing energy consumption and addressing catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism for oxidative dehydrogenation, which requires careful temperature control to balance activity and selectivity. Advanced catalysts, including single-atom catalysts and those with controlled oxygen sites, are being developed to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, overcome deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for PDH performance. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing industrial demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are developed for PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as demonstrated by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Techniques include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, which bolster resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability in PDH. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable catalytic properties for PDH in the absence of gas-phase O2, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. noted a relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, highlighting the superior properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts showing remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by directly converting propane, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with active ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam cracking and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to address the growing demand without impacting co-product yields. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, improving catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Specific strategies remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. These methods convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional processes. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms is crucial for the design of more stable catalysts, as highlighted by the need for strategies that inhibit deactivation and promote performance. The development of these strategies is essential for the advancement of PDH technology in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are evolving to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. However, detailed strategies remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering an alternative production route, particularly relevant with the rise in shale gas production. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow for competitive, continuous operation, challenges remain in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation, respectively. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby enhancing propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a promising alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the core issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P and Mg modification, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability. Mg modification decreases coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. Synthesis methods, like CADH for Al2O3, and co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts, increase surface area and active V species, crucial for high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with facile reduction of VO bonds, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species, showing five times greater activity than VOx/Al2O3. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. Catalyst performance is influenced by the nature of the support and preparation methods, affecting the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts, using Cr or Pt, face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing its potential in overcoming deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms are being explored for efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts, and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. However, the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts has been introduced, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies tackle deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms. Efforts to improve catalyst performance also consider the thermodynamic limitations and the need for lower temperatures to achieve higher selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity and serve as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size of ZrO2 catalysts, which can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creates active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. These environmentally friendly and cost-efficient catalysts are pivotal in improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand and production limitations by converting abundant propane into propene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) were synthesized, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising catalysts for PDH, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can suppress coke deposition and enhance catalyst stability, thereby improving recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, focusing on innovative catalyst design to tackle deactivation issues. Key strategies include employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with optimized active sites to enhance selectivity and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining long-term activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Enhancements involve the use of promoters such as late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Additionally, controlling metal-support interactions and particle size ensures improved stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges. V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41 have shown superior catalytic properties and stability, making them promising candidates for commercial PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized through gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate remarkable long-term stability and recyclability in PDH, with propane conversion rates and propene selectivity remaining high over multiple reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. While PDH is effectively utilized in industry, challenges remain, particularly with the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which hampers catalytic performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for additional benefits, and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the increasing demand for propylene and overcoming traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, with their improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, with processes like oxidative dehydrogenation gaining significance. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability and recyclability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching operation modes between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through novel design strategies to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and employing alloying and support modifications to improve catalyst performance. For instance, the use of single-atom catalysts and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) can prevent the agglomeration of metal nanoparticles, while the addition of promoters like Cu can elevate energy barriers for unwanted reactions, facilitating propylene desorption. Moreover, modifying reaction conditions, such as co-feeding hydrogen or CO2, can reduce coke formation and maintain catalyst stability. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability. These advancements aim to refine PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, hindering their full regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored as a solution. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures, but overoxidation risks must be managed. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 but results in less heat formation and may lead to additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals for selective hydrogen combustion, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by their improved selectivity and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability, including active site regulation, metal-support interaction enhancement, and support modification, addressing the core issue of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), exhibit high catalytic activity and stability due to the direct co-assembly process. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2. The nature of the support and preparation methods are crucial in tuning the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. However, Cr and Pt catalysts have limitations due to toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally friendly solution. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making it a promising advancement in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements but faces challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors' efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Propane dehydrogenation in proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, VOx catalysts struggle with decreased propene selectivity at higher conversions, highlighting the critical role of VOx phase nature in catalyst performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed, offering a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin enhances stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, opens new avenues for high-value propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies tackle deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aiming to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative dehydrogenation, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Computational methods support catalyst development by elucidating structure-reactivity relationships and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity and serve as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal. The active site isolation strategy, as per Quote 3, enhances PDH catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1), synthesized through a two-step process, achieve exceptional PDH performance (Quote 5): 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By controlling the coverage of hydroxyl groups, it's possible to balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, focusing on catalyst design to tackle deactivation. Innovative strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are developed to enhance selectivity and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Additional promoters, including late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and using alloying elements improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, particularly those utilizing V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, Al2O3, and MCM-41, demonstrate superior catalytic properties and stability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts reveal optimized performance and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports achieve high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit remarkable long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion and propene selectivity maintained over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, avoiding steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions, making them cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion, which is essential for high catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are proposed in the oxidative pathway, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-PDH, with low acidity of SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity of AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Ongoing research aims to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Specific design strategies remain under development, reflecting the dynamic landscape of PDH techniques.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, focusing on the clarification of active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms. The challenge lies in understanding the fundamental active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve the modification of supports, metals, and treatments to inhibit the primary cause of deactivation, coke formation. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance requires the inhibition of deactivation, which can be achieved through various synthetic strategies. Pt-based catalysts, particularly those with isolated active sites and high electron density, show promise in improving propylene selectivity and stability. The use of reducible metal oxides, such as TiO2, and the modification of Al2O3 supports can enhance catalytic stability and propylene selectivity. Changes in reaction conditions, such as the cofeeding of H2 and CO2, can also positively impact coke elimination and catalyst stability. The development of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the use of confinement situations provided by supports can prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles, ensuring the longevity and efficiency of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods and rising industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. However, detailed strategies for overcoming catalyst deactivation remain under-documented in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too fast due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area has shown that crystallization temperature influences catalytic performance by affecting the distribution of surface V species. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly in the preparation of V/SiO2 catalysts, such as vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), enhances the interaction between V5+ species and the silica support, leading to high catalytic activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures also impact the properties and catalytic performance of VOx/SiO2 catalysts. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with the enhanced performance attributed to the production of active V3+ species. The nature of the support and preparation methods are crucial in catalyst design, as they influence metal-support interactions and the stability of the most active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Cr and Pt catalysts have limitations due to toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst preparation method creates environmentally compatible catalysts. Supported ZnOx species form through a reaction with Zn atoms above 550C, with defective OH groups playing a decisive role. Tested under industrial conditions, the ZnO-based catalyst showed three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy in proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors is a promising approach. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, there's a need for a new PDH method at lower temperatures to save energy. Researchers have developed a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, which serves as an active site with cobalt, a promoter with tin to reduce deactivation by coking, and a carbon nitride phase as support. This innovation opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as promoter doping and carrier modification, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements aim to optimize performance and meet the demands of a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the catalyst's potential in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a viable alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Synthesizing spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) via a two-step process results in a catalyst with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which can improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface, it is possible to balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the development of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and main-group metals, along with controlled particle size and shape, contribute to the stability and recyclability of these catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 achieved high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable PDH performance and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, highlighting the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts are a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts are being developed. These zeolites improve catalytic activity and stability, dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, necessitates alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is emerging as a key solution. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective CO2-assisted PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites improve propene yield, with dealumination impacting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design for enhanced stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a propylene production method addresses the limitations of traditional techniques by converting propane to propylene. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge, is being tackled through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include understanding the role of active sites and deactivation mechanisms, optimizing particle size to increase active sites while managing deactivation, and developing Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts that improve selectivity and stability. The use of single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals, for instance, facilitates propylene desorption and inhibits deep dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. Bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports, metals, and treatments are also being explored to inhibit deactivation, with a focus on preventing coke formation and managing sintering. These approaches aim to improve the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, although specific details of these strategies remain unspecified in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is being explored to overcome thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures, but requires avoiding overoxidation. CO2, while milder, results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition. Innovative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, are being developed but face challenges like catalyst regeneration and toxicity, requiring further advancements for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are developed to overcome deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their properties. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design must consider support nature for optimal metal-support interactions and acid site influence. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions at high temperatures, offer an environmentally friendly solution. These catalysts, with defective OH groups playing a key role, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, as evidenced in industrial tests against conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx phase nature is critical for performance, while NiOx-based ODH catalysts explore electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr6 and Pt face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these challenges, a new low-temperature PDH method is sought to reduce energy use. Innovations include the CoSn/NC catalyst, a microwave catalyst that opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face issues like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. To address these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies. These include doping with late transition metals and main-group elements, modifying carriers, and exploring single-atom catalysts (SACs) to improve stability and recyclability. Acid-base properties are modified through alkali metal additives, and the ratio of oxygen sites is controlled to balance activity and selectivity. Metal-oxide interfaces and oxygen activity tuning are also investigated to enhance selectivity and reduce byproducts. Computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling aid in understanding catalyst effects and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, overcome deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the importance of phase composition and crystallite size in PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly boosts catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts have been shown to improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, leading to better catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are essential, focusing on stability and recyclability. These include employing promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to resist coking. Additionally, optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and using alloying elements enhance catalyst robustness and longevity, crucial for PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackles catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies, notably V-based catalysts on supports like mesoporous silica solids. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures reveal superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts exhibit high activity and stability in PDH. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts show stable catalytic properties in non-oxidative PDH, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts are promising for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the severe impact of coke formation on the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH remains a significant challenge (Quote 3). Innovative design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the cofeeding of hydrogen with propane to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals like tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and adjusting the size of the Pt catalyst to influence reactivity and side reactions (Quote 9). These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, enhancing stability and addressing the challenges posed by increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their improved activity and reduced side reactions, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation rates over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to enhance selectivity, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken precursor bonds, and the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. These approaches aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. [1] [2] [3]", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. However, literature lacks detailed specifics on these strategies, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Alternative catalysts, like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx), face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery through regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues. Finding a suitable catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, targeting stability and recyclability enhancement, tackle this issue through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the core challenge of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits, improving catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, enhance V5+ interaction with silica, leading to high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 properties and performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production. Current technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face challenges due to toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, the new ZnO catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under CRM. To tackle these issues, a novel approach using CoSn/NC as a microwave catalyst under MCRM has been developed, offering a low-temperature PDH method that reduces energy consumption and opens new avenues for utilizing abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative PDH, requiring lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Computational methods, such as DFT calculations, aid in understanding catalyst behavior and screening potential candidates, crucial for overcoming deactivation and improving selectivity in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity and serve as a major process for on-purpose propene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is crucial for creating active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrate exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration. Innovative design strategies focus on surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen in an endothermic reaction. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the use of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and main-group metals, can increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to address deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures demonstrate superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH, with the catalyst showing remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles. V-based catalysts, particularly VOX/MCM-41, exhibit high stability and can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, making them a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods have spurred the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, a leading method for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the growing need for propylene and the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Active phases are small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a critical solution to address the limitations of traditional production methods. As traditional sources like steam cracking and catalytic cracking struggle to meet demand without impacting co-product yields, selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, which is crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation has proven effective for CO2-assisted PDH. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield, with low acidity of SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity of AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between propane dehydrogenation in the presence and absence of CO2 highlights the superior performance of Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, to meet evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation challenges, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). By improving selectivity and stability, reducing coke formation, and preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles, these approaches aim to optimize PDH catalysts. As highlighted by Xiong et al., singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, demonstrating the potential of design strategies to overcome deactivation issues. Furthermore, the interaction between Pt and Cu, as shown by Gong and coworkers, can elevate the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitate propylene desorption, leading to higher propylene selectivity. These design strategies are crucial for enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as they address the fundamental challenges of catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations of nonoxidative methods. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2, though milder, results in less heat formation and may increase coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including the cationanion double hydrolysis approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P and Mg modification to VOx/Al2O3 for enhanced stability and anti-coking capability, and the direct co-assembly process for V/SiO2 catalysts, improve catalytic activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, exhibit superior performance. The nature of the support and preparation methods are crucial for tuning the proportion and stability of the most active V species. These strategies significantly enhance PDH processes, making them viable alternatives to traditional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through OH group reactions above 550C, with defective OH groups playing a critical role. The new ZnO catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high oxygen flux and surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, achieving sufficient propene yield remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Supported vanadium and molybdenum catalysts exhibit varying propene selectivity and yield, influenced by the nature of the support and the interaction with vanadium. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and prone to long-term coking and cracking, with higher energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, focusing on low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, offering a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as support, opens avenues for high-value propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face issues of unsatisfactory selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these challenges, innovative design strategies are being developed, including the addition of promoters like late transition metals and main-group elements, and modifying carriers. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, combat deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for active site creation through lattice oxygen release. Monoclinic ZrO2 outperforms tetragonal ZrO2, demonstrating superior performance in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging the abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized through active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst exhibits high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative design strategies for stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation challenges, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Techniques include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures have shown superior catalytic activity and stability, making V-based catalysts a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts have demonstrated stable catalytic properties and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting their potential for PDH in the absence of gas-phase O2. These findings support the use of V-based catalysts in overcoming deactivation issues and improving the efficiency of PDH techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising method for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already industrialized, faces the challenge of coke formation, which hinders platinum catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and traditional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. The zeolite's structure and acidity help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, with small ZnO clusters connected to the framework acting as active phases. These catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, and limitations of traditional production methods are driving the evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal and acid stability, are ideal for high chromium species dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III), are crucial in the oxidative pathway. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield, and dealumination greatly affects catalytic properties, with low acidity of SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity of AlBeta promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Focus is on developing innovative catalyst design strategies to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, to meet evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of single-atom catalysts, which improve selectivity and reduce coke formation, and the incorporation of support materials that modulate the electronic properties of the catalyst, decreasing acidity and improving dispersion. Alloying with promoters also impacts the availability of valence electrons, influencing reactivity and selectivity. Additionally, controlling reaction conditions, such as the addition of hydrogen or carbon dioxide, can help eliminate coke and maintain catalyst stability. The development of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) and the use of confinement effects in supports like mesoporous materials and zeolites prevent sintering and agglomeration of metal nanoparticles, further enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for improving the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain unspecified in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They are particularly relevant due to the surge in shale gas production, making natural gas a more economical feedstock. While PDH processes using PtSn and CrOx catalysts are competitive, they face deactivation issues, mainly due to coke deposition, which limits their activity and recyclability. Innovative design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation, which avoids thermodynamic limitations, is being explored with O2 and CO2 as oxidants, each presenting distinct advantages and challenges. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but these approaches require frequent catalyst regeneration and address issues of low reaction rates and toxicity. Further research is essential to develop practicable alternatives to PtSn and CrOx systems and to resolve the challenges of oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative. Despite its commercial success, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid site influence on VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, offering an eco-friendly route compared to oil-based methods. However, current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst has been developed, addressing these challenges. Supported ZnOx species are formed through a reaction with support OH groups, facilitated by reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Tested under industrial conditions, the ZnO-based catalyst outperformed traditional KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity while maintaining similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PDH can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, increasing temperature boosts alkane conversion but reduces alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to address these challenges, focusing on stability and recyclability. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using CoSn/NC catalysts operates at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and offering a new route for efficient propane utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like deactivation, poor stability, and low selectivity due to high-temperature reactions. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on improving selectivity and controlling reaction temperatures to minimize byproduct formation. Computational methods support catalyst development by elucidating structure-reactivity relationships and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer high propene selectivity, serving as a major on-purpose propene production process. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. These catalysts, crucial for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, making these catalysts industrially relevant and cost-efficient.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrate exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, with their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, are pivotal PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies center on the manipulation of surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, which suppress coke formation, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, increase resistance to coking, while optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size contribute to improved catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on supports like mesoporous silica solids, enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 showed high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, showcasing the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts are promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production (Quote 2). However, the severe impact of coke formation on the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH remains a critical challenge (Quote 3). Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), and modifying supports and adjusting catalyst size (Quote 9). Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism (Quote 11). There is a recognized need for a systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts in PDH (Quote 17), highlighting the ongoing efforts to improve catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being developed, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability. Notably, high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites serve as supports for ZnO catalysts, improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The active phases are small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes are emerging as crucial alternatives. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites boosting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals the positive impact of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation challenges, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, to meet evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods amid growing industrial demand. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being tackled through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the optimization of active sites to prevent side reactions, the control of particle size to balance activity and selectivity, and the development of supports that inhibit coke formation and sintering. Understanding the fundamental dehydrogenation mechanisms and the role of metal oxidation states is crucial for designing selective and stable PDH catalysts. The use of bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports with promoters like Zn and Mg have shown promise in improving selectivity and stability. Additionally, the confinement of metal nanoparticles within supports and the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) can prevent sintering and enhance catalyst longevity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as the control of reaction conditions and the design of catalysts that facilitate propylene desorption, are essential for the advancement of PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, deactivation issues persist, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full regeneration capability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is explored to overcome thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. CO2 cofeeding may increase coke deposition but can also gasify it. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, are being investigated but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, is pivotal in enhancing stability, selectivity, and efficiency, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet growing propylene demand, with catalyst design strategies targeting deactivation issues. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance is influenced by crystallization temperature, affecting Lewis acid sites and surface V species. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification aids in anti-coking and boosts catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures impact VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial in catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face limitations due to toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst addresses these issues, offering higher propene productivity and environmental compatibility. Supported ZnOx species, formed through reductive treatment, play a decisive role in the catalyst's activity. The ZnO-based catalyst outperforms conventional ones, demonstrating about three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, doped ceria for enhanced selectivity, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and improve stability and recyclability. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may contribute to efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. However, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Additionally, direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH processes at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach involves using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts as microwave catalysts under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which could open new avenues for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at reduced temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while highly active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms on the catalyst surface to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant to the reaction feed helps break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. The activation of the CH bond in propane necessitates high temperatures, making the development of stable and efficient catalysts critical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional propylene production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, with the ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment being crucial for creating active sites. This optimization through phase composition and crystallite size improves PDH performance, making ZrO2 catalysts industrially relevant and cost-efficient.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations by converting abundant propane from shale-gas deposits. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their performance and earth's cobalt abundance, are being developed. An innovative design strategy, active site isolation, enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers supported on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) were synthesized, resulting in exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thus enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies incorporate promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to boost robustness against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst performance, ensuring commercial viability and sustainability in the face of changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts, are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, making them a promising choice for industrial PDH applications. Studies show that V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 exhibit attractive catalytic properties, with VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2 catalysts showing high stability and recyclability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining propane conversion and propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for additional benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for propylene in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative to traditional propylene production methods, addressing industrial demand and limitations. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH bypasses steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, and limitations of traditional production methods have led to the prominence of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high chromium dispersion, are ideal for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites improve propene yield, with dealumination impacting catalytic properties. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites achieves high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH modes with and without CO2 demonstrates the positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, tackling deactivation issues to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production is addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. These strategies include understanding the role of active sites and deactivation mechanisms, as well as the impact of particle size on deactivation. For instance, smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, leading to structure-sensitive side reactions that result in catalyst deactivation. Design strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering an alternative production route, especially relevant with the rise in shale gas production. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH to a competitive level, challenges remain in deactivation, stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design is crucial for overcoming these issues. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored as a promising alternative, with O2 and CO2 as leading oxidants. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal. Alternative solutions, like solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, are being investigated but require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, like the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows five times higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to the production of active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy landscape changes. Traditional PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts are developed, offering an environmentally compatible solution. These catalysts form ZnOx species through reductive treatment, with defective OH groups playing a key role. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing its potential in enhancing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency. Catalyst deactivation challenges are being addressed through innovative design strategies, including the use of supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and the creation of membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx-based catalysts' performance is critical, with the nature of the VOx phase impacting selectivity. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt have issues with cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking. These catalysts also consume more energy under conventional reaction modes. To address these challenges, researchers are developing new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach uses a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst, where cobalt serves as the active site, tin acts as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst. This opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve selectivity through the control of oxygen sites and metal-oxide interfaces. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts by understanding the effects of geometrical and electronic structures on C-H bond activation and screening potential catalyst candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, show industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 increase activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) demonstrate exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key cause of deactivation. By controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage, enhanced stability and recyclability are achieved in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal to tackle deactivation issues, ensuring stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Strategies include employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with optimized active sites to enhance selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of enduring high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Enhancing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and incorporating alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to overcome catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids, such as SiO2 and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, with studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrating high activity, stability, and regeneration potential. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, prepared at specific gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit remarkable long-term stability in PDH reactions, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, while maintaining approximately 91% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a leading alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, meeting the demands of the chemical industry while overcoming the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites improve catalytic activity and stability by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, with processes like oxidative dehydrogenation gaining significance. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH modes reveals the positive effect of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a propylene production method addresses industrial demand and production limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, are developed to overcome catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. These strategies aim to increase selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, crucial for the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are key to understanding PDH, and small particle sizes increase active sites but also diversify local environments, impacting deactivation. Design strategies must balance the need for active sites with the prevention of side reactions that lead to deactivation. The role of valence states of Pt and the impact of geometric and electronic structures on propylene adsorption and side reactions are critical considerations in catalyst design. Understanding deactivation mechanisms, such as coke formation and sintering, is essential for designing more stable catalysts. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments, with a focus on reducing activity to increase selectivity. The use of H2 and CO2 in reaction conditions can also positively affect coke elimination. The confinement situation offered by supports can prevent sintering, and regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method constraints. Innovative catalyst design strategies are sought to address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain underdeveloped in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts, like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx), face challenges with fast deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is explored to avoid thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons, but results in less heat formation and may cause additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have been developed to improve catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, like CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 exhibits anti-coking properties and higher propene yields. V/SiO2 catalysts, such as V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt face issues like toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. A new method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures. Defective OH groups play a key role in this process. The developed ZnO catalyst outperforms commercial alternatives, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, aim to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking. Seeking to reduce energy consumption, researchers are developing low-temperature PDH methods. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, offering a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This innovation addresses the challenges of catalyst deactivation and energy inefficiency, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including the use of promoters like late transition metals and modifications to carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These advancements address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on improving catalyst performance through structure-reactivity relationships, acid-base property modifications, and control of oxygen sites for balanced activity and selectivity. Computational methods support catalyst development, aiding in understanding C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. The activity and selectivity of these catalysts can be tuned by changing the crystallite size and phase composition, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase showing higher activity and selectivity to propene. This is crucial for the creation of active sites through the release of lattice oxygen upon reductive catalyst treatment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, address the growing demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods. The active site isolation strategy, as mentioned in Quote [3], enhances catalytic performance in PDH. A notable example is the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized through a two-step process, which exhibits exceptional performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, as evidenced in Quote [5], showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are being investigated as efficient PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage on vanadium catalysts, are being developed to suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts have been shown to slightly reduce dehydrogenation activity but significantly improve stability by preventing coke buildup, demonstrating a promising approach to overcome deactivation issues in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, Sn, Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, are employed to increase resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids, like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate remarkable long-term stability and recyclability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over 4 hours, while propene selectivity remains at about 91%. The VOX/MCM-41 catalyst exhibits stability for PDH in the absence of gas-phase O2, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a leading alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges, notably coke formation, which hinders platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to address deactivation issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production in response to increasing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly CO2-assisted PDH, emerges as a viable solution. Innovative catalysts, like chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH modes reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Despite PDH's promise, detailed strategies to overcome catalyst deactivation are not extensively covered in literature, indicating a need for further research and development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to enhance selectivity, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken precursor bonds, and the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. These approaches aim to improve the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, reduce coke formation, and prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. As highlighted by Xiong et al., singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 show 100% conversion of propane, demonstrating the potential of these strategies in overcoming deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation, respectively. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing the core issue of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites, affecting surface V species distribution. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification improves anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Innovative V/SiO2 catalyst preparation, like direct co-assembly for V-DMSNs, enhances V5+ species interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 properties and performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' role in VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than the most active Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have limitations, prompting the development of environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. ZnOx species form in situ through a reaction with support OH groups, with defective OH groups playing a key role. Compared to a KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the new ZnO-based catalyst demonstrated three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, while enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Despite progress, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of traditional PDH methods, which include costly, scarce, or detrimental Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts prone to coking and cracking, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced for direct propane dehydrogenation at low temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. This development overcomes deactivation issues, enhances stability, and improves recyclability in PDH processes, catering to the increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with the catalyst's surface oxygen to create oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant in the PDH process helps break thermodynamic limitations but requires careful temperature control to maximize selectivity. Advanced catalyst design, including single-atom catalysts and the control of oxygen sites, is crucial for balancing activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, exhibit industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites crucial for propane activation, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and improving recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as per Quote [5]. This breakthrough supports the long-term utility of cobalt in PDH, as noted in Quote [2], and underscores the efficiency of the active site isolation strategy, as highlighted in Quote [3].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques provide an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, which can suppress coke deposition and enhance stability, leading to improved recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, including late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, increase resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative, focusing on overcoming catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. V-based catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, particularly when supported on Al2O3 and MCM-41. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts demonstrated stability in PDH without gas-phase O2 and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, attributing this to the high stability of VOX species. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, showed remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles for PDH, with propane conversion decreasing slowly from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remained at approximately 91%. These findings suggest V-based catalysts are promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. While PDH is successfully implemented, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, remains a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These include cofeeding reductive gases with propane to reduce coke, alloying platinum with metals like tin for additional benefits, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a direct conversion method for propylene production, bypassing steam cracking, addressing industrial demand and traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites, making the catalysts low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "To meet the growing demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. The number of redox Cr sites significantly impacts propene yield, with low acidity of SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity of AlBeta favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals that Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts enhance propene formation rate, unlike AlBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, focusing on catalyst innovation to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability, crucial for meeting demand and adapting to energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a propylene production method addresses industrial demand and traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. These strategies focus on improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing sintering of metal nanoparticles, crucial for the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is essential. Smaller particles increase active sites but also diverse local environments, impacting selectivity and stability. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases with decreasing particle size, affecting catalytic performance. Pt-based catalysts show promise, but valence states and electronic properties influence reactivity and selectivity. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals enhance propylene desorption and selectivity. Bimetallic compounds tested show a linear relationship between selectivity and activity. Catalyst deactivation is primarily due to coke formation, which covers active sites and accelerates on smaller nanoparticles. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments. For example, separating active metal components inhibits side reactions and improves propylene selectivity. Alloying with promoters modulates surface electronic structure and reactivity. Reducible metal oxides improve stability and selectivity. Modifying reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation. Strong metal-support interaction and confinement effects prevent sintering and enhance stability. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction can remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and the limitations of traditional methods. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer an alternative, focusing on catalyst design to tackle deactivation. Innovative strategies, like using supported vanadium oxide catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative. Despite its promise, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a major hurdle. Recent advancements highlight design strategies targeting enhanced stability and recyclability, focusing on active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, crucial for addressing deactivation challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    