Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3 supports, affecting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability and retaining high activity. Mg modification reveals anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance, with propene yields of 1927% over 6 h. The highest STY achieved is 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance, achieving 59.5% initial propene yield and 90% stable selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit 18.1% propane conversion and 91% propene selectivity, with a STY of 22 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. The most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, achieves a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1. These strategies improve PDH catalysts for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, tackling challenges posed by toxic Cr/Pt catalysts. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through high-temperature reactions, offer three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity, addressing stability and recyclability issues while being environmentally friendly.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a viable alternative for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements and enhancing efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, improving stability, and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being assessed for selective hydrogen combustion, and the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux and membrane reactors with high surface area is being explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To tackle these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, aiming for lower temperature PDH to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode, has been introduced for the first time, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing the need for sustainable and cost-effective propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. Temperature control is crucial for achieving high selectivity, and efforts target the activation of the CH bond in propane, a rate-determining step, necessitating higher temperatures. Research is exploring modifications to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH is a pivotal process for propene production, offering high selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, critical for PDH, address deactivation by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing propene selectivity and activity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 create active sites through lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, is a viable propylene production method. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. A CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, featuring isolated cobalt oxide sites, demonstrates outstanding PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence, mitigate deactivation issues, enhancing stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably suppress coke deposition, improving performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation, boosts stability, and enhances recyclability. Promoters, including late transition metals and rare-earth oxides, fortify resistance against coking. Optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size in alloying elements make PDH technologies commercially attractive, addressing industrial demand and adapting to evolving energy scenarios.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques emerge as a viable alternative, addressing thermodynamic equilibrium constraints and carbon deposition issues. Innovative catalyst design, particularly V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, show promise in PDH by enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, for example, exhibit high stability in PDH reactions, achieving full recovery through oxidative regeneration, attributed to the robustness of VOX species. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for reaction-regeneration cycles reveal sustained high propane conversion and propene selectivity, making V-based catalysts a promising solution for commercial PDH processes, tackling deactivation issues and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces significant challenges, particularly the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. To address this issue, innovative design strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These strategies aim to reduce coke formation, enhance catalyst stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thereby optimizing propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a direct conversion method, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, boost activity, minimize side reactions, and are cost-effective, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, with oxidative and nonoxidative processes gaining significance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH tackles catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Challenges remain, such as understanding the fundamental active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms, the influence of particle size on deactivation, and the need for effective regeneration methods. Strategies like the use of bimetallic compounds and the modification of supports, metals, and treatments are being explored to inhibit deactivation, with a focus on reducing coke formation and maintaining catalyst stability through regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as per undisclosed developments.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts face deactivation issues, leading to the exploration of metal oxides like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which, however, deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke but risking overoxidation, and CO2 consuming H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but producing less heat. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are alternative solutions, requiring frequent regeneration and facing low reaction rates, issues needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts are crucial, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. To tackle catalyst deactivation, a significant hurdle, recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, aligning with the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing catalyst design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification on VOx/Al2O3 boosts anti-coking capability, increasing propene yields. CADH synthesizes high surface area Al2O3, affecting catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs enhances V5+ interaction with silica, boosting activity. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from facile reduction of VO bonds, increasing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. Catalyst performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures, with optimal conditions enhancing propane conversion and propene selectivity. Preparation methods and support nature are crucial for tuning active V species proportion and stability, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts encounter toxicity and regeneration challenges. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, particularly ZnOsilicalite-1, offer an environmentally friendly solution with three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, as identified in quote [7].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges with alkene selectivity decreasing at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and designing solid oxygen carriers with high flux, are being developed. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time. The direct PDH reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is also energy-intensive. To address these challenges, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This innovative approach enables direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and offering a new pathway for efficient utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues of selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to form vacancies, is crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation. Lower temperatures are required for higher selectivity in the ODH of propane, highlighting the need for improved catalyst design to overcome thermodynamic limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address growing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative design strategies, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, enhance stability and recyclability. The monoclinic phase with smaller crystallite sizes shows higher activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is critical for creating active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, as evidenced by their performance. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic efficiency. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with high conversion and selectivity, showing no deactivation after extended reaction periods, effectively addressing key challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques have become a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, known for high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative strategies focus on surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Tuning hydroxyl group coverage balances activity and stability, improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation by minimizing coke formation. Promoters, including late transition metals and rare-earth oxides, bolster resistance to coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements are pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for commercial technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques emerge as a promising alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies, particularly VOX-based catalysts like VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41, are developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts avoid thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reduce carbon deposition, demonstrating long-term stability in PDH with maintained propene selectivity and recoverability through oxidative regeneration, showcasing their commercial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands as a viable alternative for large-scale production, already implemented in industry (Quote 2). However, catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation (Quote 3), poses a significant challenge to performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying platinum with metals such as tin (Quote 7), modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts (Quote 10). These approaches aim to enhance catalyst recyclability and stability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficiency in propylene production. Understanding the deactivation mechanism through computational simulations (Quote 11) and systematic analysis (Quote 17) is crucial for developing effective solutions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Rising demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods have led to the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, which directly convert propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The resulting ZnO catalysts are low-cost, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as a selective process for propylene synthesis. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, highlighting the importance of acidity control in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to enhance selectivity, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. These approaches aim to reduce coke formation, prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, and improve the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes, as evidenced by the work of researchers like Gong and coworkers, who showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can increase propylene selectivity while reducing dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, crucial in meeting industrial demand and overcoming limitations of conventional methods. Specific strategies remain under development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. PtSn and CrOx catalysts enable continuous operation, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, uses O2 or CO2. O2 eliminates coke and reduces reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, requiring frequent catalyst regeneration and addressing toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Innovative design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are crucial for improving catalytic stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. CADH synthesizes Al2O3, impacting catalytic performance via crystallization temperature. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature and metal-support interactions. Preparation methods tune the stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, offering three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being developed to enhance stability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of this approach depends on the membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have driven the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking issues. To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to develop new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption. A novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed for the first time, opening a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but prone to deactivation and instability. Innovative strategies, like doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to improve stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative PDH, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms. Efforts are also focused on understanding elusive reaction mechanisms and pathways, considering side reactions like H migration and H2O formation, to optimize PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing ZrO2-based catalysts, address growing industrial demand for propylene by offering high propene selectivity. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability, making them cost-efficient for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand and overcome traditional production constraints. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are optimized via active site isolation, boosting PDH performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized with nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1, demonstrates outstanding PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional limitations. Supported vanadium oxides serve as effective PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies targeting surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with optimized active sites to enhance selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of enduring high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Enhancing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and incorporating alloying elements improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Innovative V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 enhance stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrated the superior properties of V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, respectively, showing high activity, reduced carbon deposition, and full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability over multiple cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% and propene selectivity remaining at about 91%, indicating their potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable solution. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH bypasses steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, making the catalyst cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is a promising solution. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a crucial role. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 over Cr-containing zeolites affects propene formation rates, demonstrating the impact of catalyst design on process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for propylene production in evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a major challenge, is being addressed through innovative design strategies. Active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts are crucial for understanding PDH. Particle size affects the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, impacting deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments. Coke formation, a primary cause of deactivation, can be mitigated by controlling reaction conditions and transferring coke precursors from metal sites to supports. Preventing sintering, achieved through strong metal-support interactions and protective supports, is critical. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by hydrogen reduction can reactivate catalysts, although continuous cycles may not fully restore performance. Innovative approaches, such as encapsulating metal species in zeolite crystals, offer promising solutions for stabilizing metal nanoparticles and maintaining high catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Key challenges involve catalyst deactivation, prompting innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, as literature highlights the need for such advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and lack full regeneration capability. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges such as overoxidation with O2 and less heat formation with CO2. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity issues, necessitating further research for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative due to favorable propane-to-propylene price ratios. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent efforts focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues and aligning with the evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet growing propylene demand, focusing on catalyst stability and recyclability. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance is influenced by crystallization temperature, affecting acid sites and VOx species distribution. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial in catalyst design, impacting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues, leading to the development of eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms, exhibit three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, effectively tackling deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These methods aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency, with challenges in alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face challenges in decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have become crucial. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr6 and Pt are expensive, rare, and susceptible to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. To address these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for new PDH methods at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, is crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation, helping to overcome thermodynamic limitations. These strategies seek to balance activity and selectivity, reduce byproduct formation, and improve selectivity through controlled oxygen sites and metal-oxide interfaces, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, particularly the monoclinic phase, enhances activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, thereby improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, with isolated cobalt oxide sites, achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH processes. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure under reaction conditions, are being developed. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing performance in nonoxidative PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and limitations of conventional techniques. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies employ promoters like late transition metals, Sn, Ga, and metal oxides to resist coking, ensuring robust catalyst performance and PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative V-based catalysts, like VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2, optimized for stability and recyclability, show promise. Notably, VOX-SiO2 catalysts maintain high stability over eight cycles, with propane conversion rates declining from 55% to 45% and propene selectivity staying at 91%, underscoring their commercial potential in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a key alternative for its production. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly through coke formation, remains a significant challenge, impacting performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, and optimizing catalyst size. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring the method's effectiveness in meeting the growing demand for propylene. Computational simulations have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism, underscoring the need for a systematic understanding of coke formation on platinum catalysts. This understanding is crucial for catalyst regeneration and future improvements in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques have become a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements make the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, aligning with industrial needs and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably CO2-PDH, is gaining prominence as an alternative production method. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is pivotal for enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation boosts catalytic performance in CO2-PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, which exhibit a linear relationship between activity and selectivity, indicating that selectivity decreases as activity increases. Particle size is also crucial, with smaller nanoparticles experiencing more rapid deactivation due to the preferential coverage of uncoordinated active sites by coke. To combat deactivation, efforts are directed at inhibiting coke formation through support modification, metal treatment, and reaction condition adjustments. For instance, the addition of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 improves stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. Alumina, a conventional support, can be modified with alkaline promoters to reduce acidity and curb coke formation. Moreover, changes in reaction conditions, such as the co-feeding of hydrogen and CO2, can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst stability. These design strategies are essential for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in PDH processes, reflecting progress in the field.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Further research is essential to resolve these issues and develop viable industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by improved selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face issues like Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine-based regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, overcomes these challenges. This catalyst demonstrates about three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, making it a promising solution for enhanced PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and the limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but face challenges with alkene selectivity decreasing at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area improve efficiency. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms, and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques are evolving to address limitations of traditional production. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, while effective, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. Innovations aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst opens a new path for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These approaches address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on the MVK mechanism and thermodynamic limitations. Computational methods support catalyst development by understanding C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address propylene production challenges. ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues in response to growing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, are a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer an alternative, utilizing vanadium oxides as promising catalysts. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, are crucial. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Key strategies include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites for selective dehydrogenation and coke minimization. Robust catalysts withstand high temperatures, maintaining activity. Promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides increase coking resistance. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, particularly VOX/MCM-41, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues. These catalysts, as evidenced by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al., exhibit superior stability and recyclability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration, making them promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, encounters challenges with Pt catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. Innovative strategies, such as the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom Pt catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as utilizing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their controlled acidity, aid in dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, is driving the chemical industry towards propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly CO2-assisted PDH, as traditional methods are insufficient. Innovative chromium-containing Beta zeolite catalysts are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Redox cycles between Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination improving catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Research targets catalyst deactivation, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability through innovative design strategies, reflecting PDH's dynamic innovation landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites with controlled geometric and electronic properties, the use of bimetallic compounds to balance activity and selectivity, and the modification of supports to inhibit deactivation. Understanding the mechanisms of deactivation, such as coke formation and sintering, is crucial for the design of more stable catalysts. Innovative approaches aim to improve the efficiency and longevity of PDH processes by reducing the formation of coke and preventing the sintering of metal nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH stands as a promising alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. However, specific details on these innovative catalyst designs remain under development, indicating a need for further research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential for selective hydrogen combustion, yet require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Further research is crucial for developing stable, efficient catalysts for PDH processes, as highlighted by the need for a suitable combination of catalyst material and oxidizing agent.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable solution, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a critical focus, enhance selectivity and efficiency in PDH reactions, addressing deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, thus boosting stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and evolving energy landscapes, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, stands as a promising alternative to traditional propylene production methods, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. While thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, significant progress has been made in developing design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies, including active site regulation, metal-support interaction enhancement, and support modification, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer alternatives for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Catalyst design strategies, including CADH for VOx/Al2O3, enhance performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to strong V5+ species interaction. VOx/Si-beta zeolites show increased activity with higher acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. These strategies optimize PDH processes by focusing on support nature and metal-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues, prompting the development of eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, demonstrate a threefold increase in propene productivity compared to conventional catalysts, while maintaining similar selectivity. This innovation tackles deactivation challenges, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by testing under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They potentially lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts minimizes the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity, and the efficiency of this approach depends on the membrane type and geometry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged as a solution. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking. Seeking energy-efficient alternatives, researchers aim for low-temperature PDH methods. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM has been developed, addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. This innovation opens a new route for high-value propane utilization at lower temperatures, effectively reducing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with promoters and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues and improving efficiency in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence for its high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, notably ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, improving stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts exhibit industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance propene selectivity, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment is crucial for creating active sites, vital for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, is a promising propylene production method. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy significantly enhances catalytic performance, as exemplified by the synthesis of spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers supported on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1), achieving high propane conversion to propene with no apparent deactivation, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxides, due to their high activity and selectivity, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts to enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, allowing for balanced activity and stability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, promotes selective dehydrogenation and minimizes coke formation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures, are essential for commercial viability. Strategies to overcome deactivation include using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, improving metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size and shape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are innovatively designed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirm the superior catalytic properties of V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, achieving high activity and stability in PDH. Sokolov et al. further demonstrate the stability of VOX/MCM-41 catalysts without gas-phase O2 and their full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. validate the link between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, underscoring the suitability of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability in multiple cycles, with propane conversion rates and propene selectivity showcasing their industrial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production. However, Pt catalyst deactivation, mainly due to coke formation, hampers performance. Strategies to mitigate this include adding reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using DFT provide insights into deactivation mechanisms. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative design strategies, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability, making them ideal for industrial propylene production due to well-dispersed Zn species and reduced side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, specifically chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues in PDH. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are optimal for chromium dispersion, enhancing catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites, such as Cr(III)/Cr(II), are pivotal in the oxidative pathway. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion significantly boosts catalytic properties, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high propene selectivity. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals a significant increase in propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of active sites that increase the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, which can significantly influence the dehydrogenation process. The challenge of side reactions leading to catalyst deactivation is being addressed through the design of catalysts that inhibit the formation of undesired products. Particle size is also a critical factor, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments of exposed atoms, affecting deactivation mechanisms. The electronic states of Pt ions play a significant role in the selectivity and conversion of propane, with Ptx+ ions excelling in propane conversion but not selective for propylene production. Single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals have shown promise in facilitating propylene desorption and increasing the barrier for deep dehydrogenation, leading to higher propylene selectivity. The geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states of Pt surface atoms significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The deactivation of PDH catalysts is primarily due to coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to a rapid decrease in activity on smaller nanoparticles. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and sintering of Pt nanoparticles. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance requires the inhibition of deactivation, which can be achieved through various synthetic strategies. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms is crucial for the development of more stable Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH is a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation through design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst deactivation, especially due to coke deposition, remains a challenge, hindering recyclability and stability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but lack the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 shows promise; O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 results in less heat formation and may lead to additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers (CeO2, SbO4, In2O3, WO3, PbOx, Tl2O3, BiO3) and noble metals (Pt, Au) offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Further research is needed to resolve these issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, a recent focus, enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH techniques offer a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge, but innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance via increased Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 exhibits anti-coking properties and better catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative for propylene production, overcoming oil-based cracking's limitations. Traditional PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative method creates eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through OH group reactions at high temperatures, with defective OH groups playing a critical role. This new catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They aim to lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are being evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being developed for efficient dehydrogenation. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors can potentially cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for catalyst performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging. Traditional PDH catalysts, reliant on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and susceptible to coking and cracking, leading to higher energy consumption. A novel approach using microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) and a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. This method not only reduces energy consumption but also opens new avenues for utilizing abundant propane resources. The CoSn/NC catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, is supported by a carbon nitride phase, making it a promising microwave catalyst for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but faces challenges like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These advancements address the MVK mechanism's oxygen vacancy dynamics and the need for temperature control to balance activity and selectivity in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, with high propene selectivity, emerge as a key process. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on ZrO2-based catalysts, which are eco-friendly and cost-effective, showing significant activity and olefin selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimizing these catalysts through phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, particularly the monoclinic phase, enhances activity and selectivity to propene, improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are optimized via active site isolation, boosting PDH performance. A novel catalyst, with isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1, achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Supported vanadium oxides emerge as effective PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH technologies. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve the use of promoters and optimal metal-support interactions, improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, offer an alternative. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior activity and stability, maintaining high performance over multiple cycles. Propane conversion rates gradually decrease from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%, highlighting the potential for commercial PDH processes and overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, Pt catalysts used in PDH face deactivation challenges, primarily due to coke formation, which significantly impacts performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. These approaches aim to improve catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring the continued effectiveness of PDH in meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, such as ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with good textural properties and well-adjusted acidity, disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, making the catalysts low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonne demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, are gaining prominence as alternatives to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective CO2-PDH catalysts. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the impact of acidity on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal, tackling deactivation issues to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, ensuring sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence. Catalyst deactivation, a major PDH challenge, is being tackled through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These include alloying to adjust surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, defect engineering to modify surface properties, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. Particle size impacts the number of active sites, Pt geometric sites influence adsorption, and valence states affect reactivity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being developed to improve catalyst performance and longevity. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as particle size decreases, impacting activity (Quote 5). Pt valence states significantly influence propane conversion (Quote 10). A deactivation rate constant (kd) is used to evaluate catalyst stability, with higher kd values indicating faster deactivation (Quote 30). These insights and strategies are crucial for advancing PDH processes for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in PDH processes, reflecting the need for advancements in the face of increasing demand and changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Catalysts like PtSn and CrOx face deactivation issues, prompting research into alternative catalysts (GaOx, MoOx, VOx), which struggle with rapid deactivation and regeneration inefficiency. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Resolving these issues is crucial for industrial viability, as finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is pivotal for effective oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and conventional limitations. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability, recyclability, selectivity, and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternatives to traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhance stability. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated Si-beta zeolites and ZrO2 supports increase surface area and thermal stability, with ZrO2 enhancing V3+ species for higher activity. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts exhibit a wide performance range, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing limitations of toxic Cr and chlorine-requiring Pt catalysts. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through reductive treatment, offer three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, as evidenced under industrial conditions, making them a promising solution for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand for propylene. These techniques aim to lower the energy requirement for dehydrogenation, making the process more efficient. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux at dehydrogenation temperatures and membrane reactors with high surface area are explored. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and the efficiency of membrane reactors depends on the membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being designed for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially enabling cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have gained prominence. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking issues, consuming high energy under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH processes that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach involves using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which opens a new route for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, making it a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. To address these, researchers are innovating catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to improve performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on single-atom catalysts, acid-base property adjustments, and oxygen site control to balance activity and selectivity. The MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, is crucial in oxidative PDH, impacting catalyst deactivation and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, critical for propylene production, employ innovative ZrO2-based catalysts to tackle deactivation. These cost-efficient, eco-friendly catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen, creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase boost propene selectivity and activity, addressing stability and recyclability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH techniques convert shale-gas propane into propene. Cobalt-based catalysts, utilizing abundant cobalt, show promise. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with isolated cobalt oxide sites in nitrogen-doped carbon on silicalite-1 zeolite, achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, targeting the control of surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, focusing on single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites. These promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robustness against high temperatures. Optimized metal-support interactions and additional promoters further enhance stability and recyclability, addressing the challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer an alternative, focusing on V-based catalysts for enhanced stability and recyclability. VOX/MCM-41 demonstrates full recovery through oxidative regeneration, while optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts show remarkable long-term stability in multiple reaction-regeneration cycles, supporting their suitability for commercial PDH processes and addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably coke formation, which significantly undermines the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate deactivation issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, directly addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the growing demand for propylene. Computational simulations based on density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism, revealing the importance of controlling coke formation for improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. PDH processes, utilizing innovative catalyst design strategies, combat deactivation and enhance stability. Notably, high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites serve as supports for ZnO catalysts, improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, facilitate the dispersion of Zn species and reduce side reactions. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them a promising solution for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, particularly through coke formation and sintering, poses significant challenges. Innovative design strategies, such as alloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and promote redispersion, are being developed. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient catalysts in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Furthermore, Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, illustrating the impact of electronic states on dehydrogenation pathways.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for meeting growing propylene demand, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal, targeting deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, directly tackling industrial challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of conventional methods and the growing industrial demand. Catalysts like PtSn and CrOx have advanced PDH processes, but challenges persist, including deactivation from coke deposition and the need for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, utilizing O2 or CO2, is being explored to overcome thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke deposition and reduces reaction temperatures, but overoxidation must be avoided. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Finding the optimal catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, are being studied, but issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, for instance, enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues and aligning with global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are addressing industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 increases Lewis acid sites, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles, exhibit high activity due to direct co-assembly processes. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are significantly more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with enhanced performance attributed to the production of active V3+ species. The nature of the support is crucial in catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues, leading to the development of eco-friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an efficient route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. ODH lowers energy requirements but faces challenges like decreased alkene selectivity with temperature increases due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for cogeneration, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity over VOx catalysts with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may guide the development of efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have advanced, focusing on overcoming catalyst deactivation challenges. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time. To address these issues and reduce energy consumption, a novel direct propane dehydrogenation method at low temperatures is being explored. Researchers have developed a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst for microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which significantly enhances stability and recyclability. This innovative design, featuring cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as the support, opens a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism. Advanced approaches, including single-atom catalysts and computational methods, are also being explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation, addressing the challenges of high reaction temperatures and thermodynamic limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, offering high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, particularly those with a monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes, outperform tetragonal ZrO2 by enhancing activity and selectivity. Active Zrcus sites, formed upon reductive treatment, are crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the catalyst's potential in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, is a viable propylene production method. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are critical in PDH, with isolated active sites enhancing performance. A CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst demonstrates exceptional PDH efficiency, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing industrial demand and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are key PDH catalysts, known for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group presence, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably suppress coke deposition, improving stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are vital for commercial PDH technologies. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape further enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques using V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2 and Al2O3 are emerging. These catalysts, optimized for stability, offer superior activity and recyclability. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and VOX/MCM-41, respectively, with the latter showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed VOX/MCM-41's superior properties, attributing it to stable VOX species. These findings highlight V-based catalysts as a promising solution for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for propylene production (Quote 1, 2). However, the issue of coke formation significantly hampers the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts in PDH (Quote 3). To tackle this challenge, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to minimize coke formation (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin (Sn) for additional benefits (Quote 7), modifying supports to control coke (Quote 8), adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity (Quote 9), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms (Quote 10). These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for stability and efficiency in meeting industrial demand (Quote 17).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has surfaced as a promising alternative. PDH directly transforms propane into propylene, circumventing steam cracking. A significant hurdle is catalyst deactivation, which is being tackled through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. High-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, serving as supports for ZnO catalysts, have emerged as a solution. These zeolites, with their structured framework and controlled acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, yielding cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable ZnO catalysts ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are becoming crucial. As traditional methods fall short, selective processes like PDH gain prominence. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing PDH stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, a key factor for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion has proven effective in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield significantly.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. These methods convert propane to propylene, addressing the need for increased production. However, catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge, leading to decreased efficiency and selectivity. Innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create specific reaction ensembles, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and the use of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and promote redispersion of metal nanoparticles. These approaches aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering, thereby enhancing the overall efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. [Quote 50] highlights the effectiveness of separating active metal components to inhibit structure-sensitive side reactions and improve propylene selectivity. [Quote 51] and [Quote 52] demonstrate the promotional effect of Cu on the catalytic performance of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, showing that the interaction between Pt and Cu elevates the energy barrier for carbon-carbon bond breaking and facilitates propylene desorption. [Quote 53] reports an optimized loading content of Cu that increases propylene yield and selectivity while reducing coke formation. [Quote 54] explains that site-isolated Pt inhibits deep dehydrogenation side reactions by limiting the contact of precursors to a single bond instead of more stable interactions. [Quote 55] shows that Pt/Cu single-atom alloys break the scaling relationship of Pt alloys and improve propylene selectivity up to 90%. [Quote 56] suggests a similar inference for PdIn/SiO2 intermetallic alloys in ethane dehydrogenation. [Quote 57] and [Quote 58] discuss the importance of electron density in weakening metal-carbon bonds, inhibiting coke precursors, and promoting propylene desorption. [Quote 59] explains that alloying with diverse promoters modulates the surface electronic structure and reactivity. [Quote 60] and [Quote 61] demonstrate the impact of Zn amalgamation on the transformation of rate promotion and enhanced propylene selectivity. [Quote 62] shows that the addition of reducible metal oxides improves catalytic stability and propylene selectivity. [Quote 63] discusses the benefits of alumina as a support for platinum-based catalysts. [Quote 64] and [Quote 65] explain the use of alkaline promoters and doping to curb support acidity. [Quote 66] reports the highest propylene selectivity achieved with a specific Zn/(Zn+Mg) ratio. [Quote 67] and [Quote 68] discuss the introduction of metal oxides into alumina supports to enhance interaction and improve catalyst performance. [Quote 69] explains how support modification decreases acidity and modulates dispersion and electronic properties of Pt. [Quote 70] discusses the positive effect of changes in reaction conditions on coke elimination. [Quote 71] and [Quote 72] show that increasing hydrogen pressure reduces coke precursor coverage and increases propylene selectivity. [Quote 73] suggests explanations for the beneficial effects of increased H2 coverage. [Quote 74] discusses the use of CO2 cofeeding to reduce coke formation via the reverse Boudouard reaction. [Quote 75] and [Quote 76] show that modifying CeO2 with Ga3+ enhances oxygen mobility and storage capacity, improving propylene desorption and inhibiting coke formation. [Quote 77] and [Quote 78] discuss the strategy of transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports to prolong catalyst life. [Quote 79] reports a significant decrease in coke amount. [Quote 80] and [Quote 81] explain the drain off effect of Sn addition, allowing coke precursors to migrate from active metals to supports. [Quote 82] notes the lack of direct demonstration of the coke transfer pathway. [Quote 83] and [Quote 84] discuss the influence of Pt cluster size on dehydrogenation pathway and the issue of sintering at high PDH temperatures. [Quote 85] to [Quote 88] explain the causes of metal particle sintering. [Quote 89] to [Quote 93] discuss strategies to inhibit sintering and re-disperse aggregated nanoparticles. [Quote 94] to [Quote 98] explain the benefits of confinement situations offered by supports. [Quote 99] reports better stability of a coated Pt@SnO2/Al2O3 catalyst. [Quote 100] to [Quote 102] discuss the protective effect of nanocarbons and mesoporous materials as supports. [Quote 103] to [Quote 107] explain the use of zeolite crystals to stabilize metal nanoparticles. [Quote 108] to [Quote 110] report the high thermal stability of Pt nanoparticles and single atoms formed within MCM-22. [Quote 111] discusses the effectiveness of regeneration under oxidizing conditions. [Quote 112] notes the limitations of continuous regeneration. [Quote 113] and [Quote 114] explain the role of Sn in redispersion of Pt. [Quote 115] discusses the issue of metal leaching and segregation reconstruction. [Quote 116] emphasizes the need for further understanding of deactivation mechanisms and effective strategies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperature but posing overoxidation risks. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and the limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative due to the price differential between propane and propylene. However, thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge. Significant advancements in design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve catalytic stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation issue.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are addressing industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. Strategies include CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts outperform VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, affecting catalyst performance. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, crucial in meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts, however, face toxicity and regeneration challenges. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally friendly solution, boasting three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements, but faces challenges like decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored, potentially involving electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may aid in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To address these issues, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed, offering a low-temperature PDH method that reduces energy consumption. This non-precious catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase as the support, opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity and rapid deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, following the MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The addition of an oxidant can break thermodynamic limitations but requires temperature control for high selectivity. Research is exploring the nature of reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts, considering side reactions such as deep dehydrogenation and H2O formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using ZrO2-based catalysts, address growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size for enhanced activity and selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2, crucial for releasing lattice oxygen, create active sites, improving stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These catalysts are environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, making them promising alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized via active site isolation, enhancing PDH performance. CoOx@NC/S-1 exhibits high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative strategies for stability and recyclability in response to industrial needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, known for their activity and selectivity, serve as promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, effectively suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies include selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation, and ensuring robust catalysts that withstand high temperatures. Employing promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides increases resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size and shape further boost catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques using V-based catalysts on supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 address catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability in propylene production. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. on V-based catalysts, particularly VOX/MCM-41, demonstrate superior stability and recyclability with full recovery through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirm the link between VOX species and deactivation, supporting V-based catalysts for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts show long-term stability over eight cycles, with propane conversion decreasing slowly and propene selectivity remaining high.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production, as highlighted in quote [2]. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation (quote [3]), poses a significant challenge to performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote [6]), alloying platinum with metals such as tin (quote [7]), and modifying catalyst supports. Computational simulations (quote [11]) provide insights into the deactivation mechanism and reaction network of PDH, aiding in the development of more stable and recyclable catalysts for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative by directly converting propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, enhance catalytic activity and stability by dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions. The resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes are emerging as solutions. Innovative catalyst design, like chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing PDH stability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion produces superior CO2-assisted PDH catalysts, with redox cycles between Cr sites affecting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. These catalyst advancements are pivotal for meeting industrial demand and adapting to evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH stands as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design is crucial, addressing deactivation issues to boost stability and recyclability, essential for meeting industrial needs and navigating global energy transitions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. These include alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), aiming to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering. Particle size impacts the number of active sites and exposed atoms, affecting deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports and metals, are being explored. Coke formation, a primary cause of deactivation, can be mitigated by controlling the electronic and geometric structures of the catalyst surface. Changes in reaction conditions, like cofeeding hydrogen and carbon dioxide, positively affect coke elimination. Preventing sintering and promoting redispersion during regeneration cycles are critical for maintaining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Literature acknowledges the importance of these strategies but remains vague on specifics, indicating ongoing research in this area.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the limitations of traditional propylene production methods, focusing on catalyst deactivation challenges. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, but alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising as it can achieve full conversion of paraffins. O2 eliminates coke deposition and lowers reaction temperatures, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. Solid oxygen carriers (CeO2, SbO4, etc.) and noble metals (Pt, Au) for selective hydrogen combustion are explored, but frequent catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity issues need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies like supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are addressing deactivation, improving stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternatives to traditional methods. Key catalyst design strategies include CADH for synthesizing high-surface-area Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 catalyst stability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 supports improve catalytic activity, with VOx/ZrO2 being five times more active than VOx/Al2O3. The nature of the support and preparation methods are crucial for the formation of active V species, affecting catalyst performance. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, enhancing stability and retaining high activity. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits high propene yields, demonstrating its effectiveness as a PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face limitations due to toxicity and ecological harm. An innovative method using commercial ZnO creates environmentally friendly supported catalysts, with ZnOx species forming in situ through reductive treatment. Defective OH groups play a key role in this process. The ZnO-based catalyst outperforms conventional KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, as evidenced in industrial conditions over 400 hours.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. They aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency, but face challenges due to temperature-dependent equilibrium conversion of alkanes and decreased alkene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, offering cogeneration potential. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts is a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques offer a solution. However, conventional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Seeking to address these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalysts for PDH at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been introduced. This non-precious catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride as support, opens a new pathway for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures, directly addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods have led to the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts suffer from poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to address the limitations of Pt-based catalysts and improve the overall efficiency of PDH for propylene production, considering the MVK mechanism in oxidative dehydrogenation and the need to overcome thermodynamic limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity. Innovative design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, surpassing tetragonal ZrO2, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH techniques emerge as a key solution, leveraging cobalt-based catalysts for their abundance and effectiveness. An innovative active site isolation strategy significantly enhances catalytic performance, as demonstrated by cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, achieving 40% propane conversion to propene with >97% selectivity and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600°C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route. Supported vanadium oxides on γ-Al2O3, with controlled surface structure and hydroxyl groups, are promising catalysts for PDH, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in catalyst deactivation, making these catalysts highly effective in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are pivotal, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts. These catalysts, with optimized active sites, promote selective dehydrogenation and reduce coke formation, crucial for PDH's commercial viability. Enhanced by late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, these catalysts resist coking. Optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle characteristics further boost stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable solution, focusing on V-based catalysts for enhanced stability and recyclability. Supported on mesoporous silica solids, Al2O3, and MCM-41, these catalysts, particularly VOX-SiO2, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit high activity and remarkable long-term stability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, positioning them as promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production, as highlighted by quote [2]. However, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts, as noted in quote [3]. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke formation, as mentioned in quote [6]. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, making ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. High dispersion and the presence of redox chromium species are crucial for achieving high catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic activity, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieving high propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability, crucial for PDH's effectiveness in changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, defect engineering, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, and enhance the overall efficiency of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial, as is the role of particle size in exposing diverse local environments that can lead to deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to design more stable catalysts. The use of H2 and CO2 in reaction conditions can also positively impact coke elimination. SMSI can prevent sintering and help re-disperse aggregated nanoparticles during dehydrogenation and regeneration processes. Confinement effects provided by supports can prevent metal cluster sintering. Regeneration under oxidizing conditions followed by H2 reduction is an effective method to remove coke and reactivate catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have led to the emergence of PDH techniques as a viable alternative. These techniques address catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as highlighted in relevant literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Challenges with catalyst deactivation persist, despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face issues with fast deactivation and coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces new challenges. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and address toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, offers a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques for propylene production address industrial demand through innovative catalyst design. Strategies like P and Mg modification enhance stability and anti-coking capability. CADH synthesis of Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs improves V5+ interaction with silica, yielding high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) and ZrO2 supports increase surface area and thermal stability, with VOx/ZrO2 showing higher activity due to V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological harm issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment above 550C, addresses these challenges by utilizing defective OH groups for active ZnOx species formation. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity than conventional catalysts, providing an environmentally compatible solution to enhance propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, offering energy efficiency and addressing limitations of traditional methods. They lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation but face challenges with decreasing alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to overcome these issues. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of VOx phase in catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption. To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been introduced for the first time, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but prone to deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, which governs oxidative PDH, involves reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. These vacancies are refilled by O2 or CO2, creating a catalytic cycle. Advanced catalyst design, including single-atom catalysts and oxygen activity tuning, supported by computational methods, optimizes C-H bond activation and selectivity, addressing deactivation issues and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, notably the monoclinic phase, enhance propene selectivity and stability. This design strategy boosts recyclability, making PDH processes more eco-friendly and cost-effective, directly tackling catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand, PDH techniques utilizing shale-gas propane offer a viable alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with the active site isolation strategy enhancing performance. A notable catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using supported vanadium oxides, offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation by controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. These catalysts, with tailored active sites, promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation, ensuring commercial PDH technologies can withstand high temperatures and maintain activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH performance with VOX/MCM-41 catalysts in the absence of O2, with full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting V-based catalysts' promise for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production, as highlighted in quote [2]. However, Pt catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, as mentioned in quote [3], poses a significant challenge to PDH's industrial implementation. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote [6]), alloying Pt with metals such as Sn for additional benefits (quote [7]), modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size (quote [9]), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (quote [10]). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability and stability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative by directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a pivotal alternative, complemented by olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP). Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior CO2-assisted PDH catalysts, where redox Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites enhances propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 reveals enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, demonstrating the effectiveness of catalyst design strategies in meeting industrial demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI), are being developed to tackle issues of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding and manipulating the fraction of active sites on catalysts, which can significantly influence deactivation, is crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH stands as a promising alternative. It addresses catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, although specific strategies remain under development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Catalysts like PtSn and CrOx enable competitive PDH processes, but face challenges like noble metal loading and stability. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome deactivation and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts, such as metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx), suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 is promising, lacking thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2, while milder, results in less heat formation. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being investigated, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a hurdle, yet significant strides have been made in catalyst design to enhance stability and recyclability, focusing on active site regulation, metal-support interaction, and support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    