Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies are addressing the challenges of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production, focusing on overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts synthesized through the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) show improved performance with optimized crystallization temperatures and vanadium loadings. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits and enhances catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance with high propene yields and stable selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high STYs due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica support. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. These strategies, including support modifications and vanadium doping levels, contribute to the development of more active and stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional PDH catalysts, using Cr or Pt, face issues with toxicity or ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment above 550C, with defective OH groups playing a key role. These catalysts, like ZnOsilicalite-1, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals enable selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux improve efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, necessitating further catalyst design advancements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking. Energy consumption is also high under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these, innovative catalysts are being designed for low-temperature PDH, reducing energy use. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst has been developed for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opening a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This catalyst uses cobalt as the active site, tin to reduce coking, and carbon nitride for support, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies also involve the use of single-atom catalysts (SACs) with defined structures, tuning acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen sites to balance activity and selectivity. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts by understanding the effects of structure on C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates. This evolution in PDH techniques addresses the limitations of traditional methods and meets the increasing demand for propylene in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key process for on-purpose propene production, offering high selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. These catalysts, crucial for PDH performance, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial for PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance, as demonstrated by spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, leading to better catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. These strategies promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robust catalysts withstand high temperatures. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery through oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts are promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals like tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing propylene demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by directly converting propane, avoiding steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), is gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance, with low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieving high propene selectivity. Oxidative pathways involving redox cycles of Cr sites contribute to propene yield. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive impact on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Ongoing research develops innovative catalyst design strategies to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Specific details of these strategies remain under development, reflecting the dynamic landscape of PDH techniques.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. A key challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which can be caused by factors such as coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. Innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These include the use of alloying to modulate surface electronic structures, the incorporation of reducible metal oxides to improve stability and selectivity, and the application of strong metal-support interactions to prevent sintering. Additionally, modifying reaction conditions, such as co-feeding hydrogen or CO2, can help reduce coke formation. The design of catalysts with specific geometric and electronic structures is crucial for improving selectivity and stability in PDH processes. [Quote 2] highlights the need to clarify active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. [Quote 26] emphasizes that the primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation, which can be mitigated through the strategies mentioned. These approaches aim to optimize PDH catalysts for enhanced efficiency and recyclability in the face of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These advancements aim to boost stability and recyclability, although detailed methodologies remain under wraps in the scientific literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate quickly due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces new challenges. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including P and Mg modifications, enhance stability and recyclability. CADH synthesizes Al2O3 with high surface area, affecting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification aids in anti-coking and boosts catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly for V-DMSNs enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Si-beta zeolites provide high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to the reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, increasing V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional PDH catalysts face limitations, prompting the development of an environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalyst. This innovation forms ZnOx species in situ, enhancing stability and recyclability. The new catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, as evidenced by testing against a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They aim to lower energy requirements and enhance efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues and improve stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are being explored, with potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts has been introduced, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride as support, opens avenues for high-value C3H8 resource utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges with propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed, focusing on doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, overcoming deactivation and enhancing selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as ZrO2-based catalysts, are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, can release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit higher activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, featuring spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising catalysts for PDH due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies are being developed to control the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, focusing on the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thus enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Techniques include employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with customized active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity over extended periods, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides, which bolster resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and incorporating alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing catalyst deactivation issues. V-based catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, with mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts achieving high activity and stability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate remarkable long-term stability in PDH reactions, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. These findings highlight the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes, offering an alternative method to produce propylene that avoids thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reduces carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. While PDH is already in use, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, remains a significant challenge. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying platinum with metals like tin for additional benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by directly converting propane, avoiding steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with good textural properties and well-adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity, reduce side reactions, and are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, particularly as selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) gain prominence. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites with specific geometric and electronic properties to improve selectivity and prevent side reactions that lead to deactivation. Particle size is crucial, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments, affecting reactivity. The interaction between intermediates and the catalyst's surface is critical, as it influences propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Deactivation often results from coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to decreased catalytic activity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation involve modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. For instance, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. Alumina, a conventional support, can be modified with alkaline promoters to reduce acidity and curb coke formation. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as the co-feeding of H2 and CO2, can positively impact coke elimination. The confinement of metal nanoparticles within supports can prevent sintering and maintain stability at high temperatures. These design strategies are crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods amid growing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, though specific details remain unspecified.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, deactivation issues persist, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery (Quote 2, 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising approach (Quote 5). It fully converts paraffins by combusting hydrogen, with O2 and CO2 as leading oxidants, each presenting unique advantages and challenges (Quote 6). Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical (Quote 15). Alternative solutions, including solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity for industrial viability (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting demand and adapting to energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 improves VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, boosting stability. Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial, influencing metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of toxic Cr and Pt catalysts. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, overcomes these issues. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, offering a promising solution to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements but faces challenges with alkene selectivity due to increased temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are being developed. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these issues, a novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed. This method operates at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources. The CoSn/NC catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase as support, offers a promising solution for efficient PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but these face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To tackle these issues, researchers are innovating catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, to boost stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These advancements aim to refine the PDH mechanism, enhancing its efficiency and reliability in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable solution, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, crucial for creating active sites. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. These environmentally friendly and cost-efficient catalysts, when treated reductively, release lattice oxygen, generating coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations essential for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging the abundant propane from shale-gas deposits, offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with innovative active site isolation strategies enhancing their performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as per Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups. These groups improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial for PDH technologies. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, and optimizing metal-support interactions, particle size, and shape, to improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. V-based catalysts, notably VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2, demonstrate superior catalytic properties, stability, and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies reveal that optimizing gelation and calcination temperatures for VOX-SiO2 catalysts significantly enhances catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. These catalysts, when supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, show high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 exhibiting full recovery after oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. This research supports the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes, addressing deactivation issues and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate deactivation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions, making them cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high propene selectivity. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 shows improved propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, innovating catalyst design to combat deactivation, boost stability, and recycle efficiency, crucial for both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, which show superior activity and selectivity but require a fundamental understanding of active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms. Particle size is crucial, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments. Design strategies aim to optimize the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, which increases as particle size decreases, to enhance propylene production while minimizing side reactions and catalyst deactivation. The goal is to develop catalysts that are selective for propylene production and can withstand the rigors of PDH processes, including high temperatures and complex atmospheres, without significant deactivation or sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are sought to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Specific details of these strategies remain unexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is promising; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) are alternative solutions for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Resolving these issues is crucial for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, thereby optimizing propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative due to the propane-propylene price disparity. Catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle, but advancements in design strategies, such as active site regulation and support modification, significantly improve stability and recyclability, addressing key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability. CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosts catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation method tuning can optimize the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalyst performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have issues with toxicity and regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these challenges. Defective OH groups play a key role in forming active ZnOx species. This catalyst outperforms commercial alternatives, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency. However, challenges arise with temperature increases, leading to decreased alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have spurred the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been introduced for the first time, offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C on Al2O3-supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. To address these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals like Ga and Sn, and modifying carriers. These strategies aim to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving the reaction of reducing reactants with catalyst surface oxygen atoms, is central to oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. However, the reaction products are prone to over-oxidation, necessitating lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom catalysts and the control of oxygen sites, is being explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase boost activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are developed for PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. Spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1) are synthesized, achieving high propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. Tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface balances activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, utilizing innovative catalyst design strategies to tackle deactivation issues. These strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of enduring high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH success. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking, while optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size contribute to improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In the context of growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques emerge as a viable alternative. PDH processes, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackle catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies. Notably, V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit remarkable long-term stability and recyclability in PDH, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, while maintaining 91% propene selectivity. The VOX/MCM-41 catalyst demonstrates full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting its stability and potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to overcome these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and controlled acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are proving insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, are emerging as promising alternatives. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to address deactivation issues and enhance stability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion has shown to produce excellent catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive effect of CO2 on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the growing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, improving stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thus enhancing the efficiency and sustainability of propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. For instance, the fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as metal particles shrink, affecting the number of active sites. Pt-based catalysts, with their electronic states, significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation is crucial for improved performance, with strategies focusing on support modification, metal properties, and treatment methods. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms and proposing effective strategies are key to advancing PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the growing industrial need for propylene by offering an alternative production route, especially relevant post-shale gas boom, making natural gas a cost-effective feedstock. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts allowing continuous operation, challenges remain in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but lack the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems, deactivating quickly due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 and CO2, as oxidants, have distinct impacts: O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic but risks overoxidation; CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals like Pt and Au are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are emerging, notably the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which have shown improved selectivity and efficiency in PDH reactions, addressing stability and recyclability issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative due to the favorable price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production. Traditional PDH catalysts, using Cr or Pt, face issues with toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, addresses these challenges. This catalyst, featuring active ZnOx species, shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, making it a promising solution for enhanced PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH can lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, but faces challenges with alkene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and designing solid oxygen carriers with high flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area improve efficiency. NiOx-based catalysts are being developed for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion remains.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these challenges, a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being widely used despite issues with selectivity, deactivation, and stability at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including doping with promoters like late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the MVK mechanism's challenges in oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties interact with the catalyst's surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies. The use of single-atom catalysts, modification of acid-base properties, and control of oxygen sites on the catalyst surface are explored to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts by understanding the effects of structure on C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key process, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the development of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity to propene, making them environmentally friendly and cost-efficient alternatives for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging the abundant propane from shale-gas deposits, address the growing demand for propylene by converting propane into propene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as per Quote 3, enhances catalytic performance. A novel catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, as highlighted in Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising catalysts for PDH, offering high activity, proper propylene selectivity, and excellent regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies focus on understanding and controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a key factor in deactivation, leading to better catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the utilization of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with optimized active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. The incorporation of promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides, increases robustness against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size and shape, and alloying elements significantly boost catalyst stability and recyclability, crucial for the commercial success of PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. found that mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts achieved high activity and stability, while Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable PDH performance and full recovery with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. noted a correlation between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces the challenge of coke formation on Pt catalysts, which significantly impacts performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as Sn for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations using DFT have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion enhances catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes. Specific design details are not elaborated but are acknowledged as crucial advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, particularly in tackling catalyst deactivation. These strategies include the optimization of active sites, understanding deactivation mechanisms, and the influence of particle size on deactivation. For instance, smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments, impacting selectivity and stability. The challenge lies in the structure sensitivity of side reactions, leading to the formation of undesired products and catalyst deactivation. Design strategies aim to improve selectivity towards propylene production while minimizing the formation of coke, a primary cause of deactivation. The electronic and geometric states of active sites significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Understanding these mechanisms is essential for the development of more stable and selective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Specific details of these strategies remain unprovided in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts allow for competitive, continuous operation, challenges remain in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Innovative strategies aim to overcome deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but deactivate too quickly due to coke deposition, with limited recovery through regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. CO2 cofeeding may increase coke deposition but can also gasify it, affecting catalyst performance through competitive adsorption. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals like Pt and Au are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, requiring frequent catalyst regeneration and addressing low reaction rates and toxicity issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, show promise in boosting selectivity and efficiency, addressing stability and recyclability issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced catalyst deactivation persists as a hurdle. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, targeting stability and recyclability enhancement, have shown promise. Strategies include active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation challenges while aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), exhibit high catalytic activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ species interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on surface VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts are developed, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, enhancing environmental compatibility. Defective OH groups play a critical role in active ZnOx species formation. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO catalyst demonstrates triple the propene productivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, focusing on supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt face challenges of cost, scarcity, and long-term deactivation due to coking and cracking. Moreover, direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To address these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, opens opportunities for high-value conversion of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, suffer from poor propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of single-atom catalysts (SACs) to establish structure-reactivity relationships, modifying acid-base properties through alkali metal additives, and controlling the ratio of oxygen sites on the catalyst surface to balance activity and selectivity. Computational methods, like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling, support the development of these catalysts by understanding the effects of geometrical and electronic structures on C-H bond activation and screening potential catalyst candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer high propene selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional propylene production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using ZrO2-based catalysts, overcome deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for creating active sites through the release of lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment. This results in coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations, responsible for propane activation, making PDH a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, offer a solution to the growing demand for propylene, a vital commodity in various industries. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with isolated active sites enhancing performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized through a two-step process, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, help overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, leading to better performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the use of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Additional promoters, such as late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides, increase resistance to coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, particularly through the development of innovative catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. V-based catalysts, supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, have shown superior catalytic properties for PDH, with VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrating remarkable long-term stability across multiple reaction-regeneration cycles. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. confirm the high catalytic activity and stability of V-based catalysts, especially when supported on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, respectively. These findings suggest that V-based catalysts are promising candidates for commercial PDH processes, capable of overcoming thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reducing carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate deactivation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the need for efficient propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions. The ZnO catalysts, low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, are advantageous for industrial propylene production, addressing deactivation challenges and meeting increasing industrial demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the limitations of traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and related processes like olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are emerging as key alternatives. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their unique structure and properties, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites improve propene yield, with dealumination impacting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites boosts propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 reveals the superior performance of Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, as literature highlights.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that are selective for propylene production, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and the use of supports that can inhibit deactivation. For instance, smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments, impacting deactivation rates. The interaction between metals and supports, such as Pt on CeO2, can stabilize nanoparticles and prevent deactivation. Additionally, the control of reaction conditions, like the addition of H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst stability. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial need for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through cutting-edge design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional production methods. PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, enabling continuous operation for years, but challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is promising; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported vanadium oxide catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking methods, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation poses a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing key deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies significantly, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production. Traditional PDH catalysts using Cr or Pt face issues with toxicity or ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment above 550C, addresses these challenges. This catalyst, with a role for defective OH groups in forming active ZnOx species, shows about three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, offering an environmentally compatible solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by potentially lowering energy requirements. Catalyst deactivation challenges are tackled through innovative design strategies, such as using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high oxygen flux and surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are being developed. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To address these issues, a new PDH method at lower temperatures is sought to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed. This method opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being widely used despite issues of unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, fast deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with promoters like late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to address the challenges of Pt-based catalysts, ensuring higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, offer high propene selectivity and can be optimized through phase composition and crystallite size to enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, offer a viable alternative for propylene production amidst growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A novel catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, synthesized through a two-step process, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition and enhance stability, leading to improved recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Techniques include employing single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with optimized active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining long-term activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Strategies to overcome deactivation involve using promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to increase resistance against coking. Optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements contribute to enhanced stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. PDH, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackles catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3, which exhibit superior catalytic properties. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate high activity, stability, and recyclability in PDH, avoiding thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and minimizing carbon deposition. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports achieve high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. also confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, indicating V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising route for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already utilized in industry, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have provided insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, effectively disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected to the HZSM-5 framework act as active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is emerging as a key solution. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes shows CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as highlighted in recent literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of alloying and dealloying to modify the electronic and geometric properties of catalysts, single atom catalysis to maximize active sites while minimizing deactivation, subsurface catalysis to influence surface reactivity, defect engineering to create active sites, metal-hydride chemistry to control reaction pathways, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and improve dispersion. These approaches aim to increase the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, reduce coke formation, and prevent the sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Furthermore, Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, illustrating the potential of alloying in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. However, detailed specifics of these strategies remain underexplored in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, deactivation issues persist, necessitating innovative design strategies for stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show promise but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity concerns. Further research aims to optimize catalysts and oxidizing agents for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, enhancing selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a promising alternative, leveraging the price advantage between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Notably, significant advancements have been made in PDH catalyst design strategies, focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, to improve stability and recyclability, addressing the deactivation challenge effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing Al2O3 with high surface area, P and Mg modification of VOx/Al2O3 to reduce polymerization and coking, and innovative V/SiO2 catalyst preparation, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts show increased activity due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. These strategies improve catalytic performance and stability, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these challenges. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the new catalyst boosts propene productivity by three times while maintaining similar selectivity, offering an environmentally compatible solution to PDH catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored, offering potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, impacting propene selectivity. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are problematic due to their cost, scarcity, toxicity, and susceptibility to coking and cracking over time. These catalysts also have high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To address these challenges, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for new PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed, which opens a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures. This development is significant as it aims to overcome the deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being commercial but facing issues like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to control the ratio of oxygen sites on the catalyst surface, balance activity and selectivity, and reduce byproduct formation, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, combat deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, thus improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as evidenced by CoOx@NC/S-1 synthesis, enhances catalytic performance, achieving high propane conversion to propene with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts under reaction conditions, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups, it's possible to balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are pivotal, focusing on single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites. These advancements aim to enhance selectivity, minimize coke formation, and improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial for commercial success. Strategies include employing late transition metals, main-group metals like Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further boost catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In the face of growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH techniques, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackle catalyst deactivation issues by employing innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3. These catalysts, particularly when supported on Al2O3 and MCM-41, exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, prepared at specific gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH processes, maintaining propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the escalating demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework are proposed as active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, reaching an estimated 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, prompting the exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. Alternative PDH processes, including oxidative and nonoxidative methods, are gaining significance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive impact on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial needs and navigating global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thus boosting the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also the diversity of exposed atoms, which can lead to deactivation. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as particle size decreases, affecting the selectivity and stability of the catalyst. Design strategies must consider the geometric and electronic states of the catalyst to influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The first CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, and the energy barriers for cracking and dehydrogenation must be carefully managed. Catalyst deactivation is primarily due to coke formation, which covers active sites and blocks reactant access. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and manage the electronic and geometric properties of the catalyst. The stability of Pt-based catalysts can be enhanced by understanding and addressing deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face challenges with rapid deactivation and coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces new challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential for selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have toxicity issues. Further research is crucial to enhance catalyst stability, improve recyclability, and develop effective oxidative dehydrogenation systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Catalyst design innovations, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price difference between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing key deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, improve VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the direct co-assembly process. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and regeneration, prompting the development of environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. These catalysts, formed through a reaction with support OH groups at high temperatures, show three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements, but face challenges with alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and proton-conducting membrane reactors, enhance stability and recyclability. Potassium minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity, while doped ceria improves selectivity in hydrogen combustion. Cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy is explored in membrane fuel cell reactors. However, VOx catalysts struggle with decreased propene selectivity at higher conversions. Supported oxides of p-block metals and NiOx-based catalysts are being investigated for their electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst. This approach opens new avenues for efficient, low-temperature utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, despite high activity, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, leveraging the MVK mechanism for oxidative dehydrogenation. The use of single-atom catalysts, adjusting acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen site ratios on the catalyst surface are among the methods to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation. Computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling support the development of these catalysts, aiding in the understanding of C-H bond activation and catalyst screening.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key solution, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues. These catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, demonstrate industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, with the ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment being crucial for active site creation. This advancement in catalyst design significantly boosts PDH performance, addressing the challenges of stability and recyclability in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are central to PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, significantly boosts catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, with spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites, exhibits exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, with their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, are explored as promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage, are crucial for suppressing coke deposition, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts play a key role in improving stability by inhibiting coke formation, thus optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design is pivotal for addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Strategies include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for PDH's commercial success. Enhancing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and incorporating alloying elements are key to improving catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative production route. PDH, both oxidative and non-oxidative, tackles catalyst deactivation by employing innovative design strategies, such as V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the superior catalytic activity and stability of V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports, respectively, in PDH reactions. These catalysts show high resistance to deactivation and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, highlighting their potential for commercial PDH processes. Rodemerck et al. further support the use of V-based catalysts, noting their stability and recyclability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight hours, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. These findings underscore the suitability of V-based catalysts for PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial success, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges posed by increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods by directly converting propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, improve catalytic activity and reduce side reactions. They are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them promising for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH processes. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high chromium dispersion, are ideal for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a crucial role. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 shows enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the need for increased production. However, catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge, leading to the development of innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH processes. Active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are crucial for understanding PDH, and small particles, while increasing active sites, also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, impacting deactivation. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome these challenges, ensuring the longevity and efficiency of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting global energy demands.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the surge in industrial demand. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, allowing for continuous operation, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative. O2 and CO2 are key oxidizing agents, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperatures but introducing overoxidation risks, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat formation and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques offer an alternative route. Innovative catalyst design, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the critical challenge of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ species interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 catalyst performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer an environmentally friendly solution. These catalysts, with defective OH groups, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, marking a significant advancement in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry are crucial for efficiency. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "To address the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, innovative methods are being developed. A new direct propane dehydrogenation technique at lower temperatures is sought to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have introduced a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, which serves as an active site with cobalt, a promoter with tin to reduce deactivation by coking, and a carbon nitride phase as support. This approach opens a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, effectively addressing the challenges of traditional PDH techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges including poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms, is central to oxidative dehydrogenation. Strategies also include the use of single-atom catalysts, tuning acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen site ratios to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods like DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key process for propene production, offering high selectivity. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative strategies focus on developing cost-efficient, environmentally friendly catalysts based on ZrO2, which exhibit industrial relevance in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size is critical, as smaller sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, offer a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are central to PDH. An innovative design, the active site isolation strategy, enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the deployment of single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and maintain activity at high temperatures over extended periods. Robust catalysts, incorporating promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth oxides, are essential for commercial PDH technologies, ensuring stability and recyclability through optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues and enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to maintain stability in PDH without gas-phase O2 and fully recover with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41, attributing it to the stability of VOX species. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrating remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining approximately 91% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, is a significant challenge. Innovative strategies include cofeeding hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, modifying supports, adjusting Pt size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The active phases, small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are proving insufficient. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, alongside olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP), to meet the increasing demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a significant role in the oxidative pathway. The number of redox Cr sites directly impacts propene yield, and dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, aiming to boost stability and recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. For instance, the fraction of active sites increases as metal particles shrink, which can lead to deactivation due to side reactions like deep dehydrogenation. Design strategies aim to control the geometric and electronic states of the catalyst to inhibit these reactions, such as by modifying support acidity and coke mobility. Additionally, the interaction between metals and supports, like Pt and CeO2, can lead to highly stable clusters that resist sintering and maintain activity even at high temperatures. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for addressing the challenges of deactivation and improving the overall performance of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to address deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, though specific details remain scarce in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production amid growing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, current technologies face challenges, particularly with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate rapidly due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery post-regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, is promising as it avoids thermodynamic limitations. O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, but overoxidation risks olefin selectivity. CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic. CO2 cofeeding may increase coke deposition but can also gasify it. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, such as solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, are being explored but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, including the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermal deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to boost stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, including CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhance stability and performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity due to stable VOx species. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 show improved performance, with the latter being five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design must consider support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation, crucial for surface VOx species stability. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance range of V-based catalysts is significant, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of oil-based processes. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face issues with toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst has been developed, offering an environmentally compatible solution. Supported ZnOx species, formed through reductive treatment, play a crucial role in enhancing activity. Testing under industrial conditions revealed the ZnO-based catalyst's superior propene productivity, marking a significant advancement in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while doped ceria shows promise as a solid oxygen carrier. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially enabling cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach addresses the need for cost-effective, stable, and recyclable catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges like unsatisfactory propylene selectivity and fast deactivation due to coke formation. To address these issues, innovative strategies are being developed, including doping with promoters like late transition metals and modifying carriers to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, crucial for meeting the projected global demand of 130 million metric tons by 2023. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies, is central to the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. Efforts to improve catalyst performance also consider the activation of the CH bond in propane, a rate-determining step requiring high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating the catalyst's industrial relevance and potential for improving PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances performance, as exemplified by CoOx@NC/S-1, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are emerging as promising catalysts for PDH, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as controlling the surface structure and presence of hydroxyl groups, help overcome deactivation issues and enhance stability in nonoxidative PDH processes. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, leading to better catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are pivotal, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites. These advancements aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential for commercial PDH technologies. Strategies include employing late transition metals, main-group metals like Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In the context of growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts supported on materials like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the superior catalytic properties of V-based catalysts, especially when supported on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, achieving high activity and stability in PDH reactions. Sokolov et al. also found that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts show stable catalytic properties in the absence of gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. reported a correlation between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, highlighting the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit remarkable long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion decreasing slowly from 55% to 45% over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, while propene selectivity remains at approximately 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. Despite its industrial implementation, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial propylene demand and overcoming traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. PDH processes directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, are being developed. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The active phases are small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The resulting ZnO catalysts are low-cost, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, particularly in the presence of CO2 (CO2-PDH), offering a selective process for propene synthesis. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. High dispersion of redox chromium species in Beta zeolites, achieved through dealumination and impregnation, significantly improves catalytic performance in CO2-PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion produces excellent catalysts, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene. In switch operation mode, CO2 presence boosts propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. A major challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which can be caused by coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. Innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create specific reaction ensembles, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. These strategies aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. For instance, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms, while the addition of elements like Sn can inhibit carbon-carbon bond cleavage and allow coke precursors to migrate from active metals to supports, reducing coke coverage. Understanding and addressing the deactivation mechanisms is crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation by advancing design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, though specifics remain under research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate quickly due to coke deposition, lacking the stability of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show promise for selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have toxicity issues. Further research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, making PDH processes more viable.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. However, thermal deactivation poses a significant challenge. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are pivotal in addressing deactivation, improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhance stability and activity. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high dispersion and stability. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 show improved performance due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature and preparation methods significantly influence the formation of surface VOx species, affecting overall catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. Existing technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face challenges due to toxicity or ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, addresses these issues. This catalyst, featuring active ZnOx species, shows about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, making it a promising solution for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. PDH can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. However, challenges include decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, including the use of supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and the design of solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are being explored. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged. Traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. The direct PDH reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to prevent coking, and carbon nitride as the support, opens up high-value applications for abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, but Pt-based catalysts face challenges such as poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies address deactivation issues by controlling the ratio of oxygen sites on the catalyst surface and modifying acid-base properties, leading to improved selectivity and reduced byproduct formation. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts by aiding in the understanding of structure-reactivity relationships and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites crucial for propane activation, making these catalysts environmentally friendly and cost-efficient for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing industrial demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, achieved 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative route for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration performance. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve catalyst stability by suppressing coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation. By tuning the coverage of hydroxyl groups, it's possible to balance activity and stability, enhancing recyclability and performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies are pivotal in overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Key strategies include the use of promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to increase resistance against coking. Designing catalysts with optimal metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements is essential for maintaining activity over long periods and ensuring commercial viability. These advancements address catalyst deactivation, a critical challenge in PDH, making the process more efficient and sustainable.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, address deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures demonstrate superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial PDH applications. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to exhibit stable PDH performance and full recovery through oxidative regeneration. These findings suggest V-based catalysts as a promising option for commercial PDH processes, capable of maintaining high propene selectivity and long-term stability across multiple reaction-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising route for large-scale propylene production. While PDH is industrially established, challenges remain, particularly in managing coke formation, which hampers the performance and stability of platinum catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to address deactivation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) offer insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are being developed, focusing on enhancing stability and recyclability. A notable strategy involves using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, which improves catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. The active phases are small ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. Supported ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternative production methods beyond traditional steam and catalytic cracking. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, with selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH modes reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. However, specifics on these strategies remain unspecified in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms, and optimizing particle size to balance activity and stability. For instance, smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also expose atoms with diverse local environments, which can lead to deactivation. Design strategies must consider the balance between enhancing propylene selectivity and preventing the formation of coke, a primary cause of catalyst deactivation. By understanding the role of particle size, electronic states, and geometric structures, researchers are developing catalysts that can maintain high activity and selectivity over extended periods, even under the harsh conditions of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in PDH processes, although specific details remain elusive in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering an alternative production route, particularly relevant with the rise in shale gas production. While PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes to competitive levels, challenges remain in deactivation, stability, and recyclability. Alternative catalysts like metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation, respectively. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer an alternative production route. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported vanadium oxide catalysts, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking processes, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative due to the favorable price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a hurdle. Recent advancements in catalyst design, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    