Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) enhance stability and recyclability in propylene production. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 supports influences VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance, with crystallization temperature affecting surface V species distribution. Optimal vanadium loading (12 wt%) yields a high concentration of active V3+ species. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability, while Mg modification reduces coke formation and enhances catalytic performance. The V/SiO2 catalyst (1:12 mass ratio) achieves superior propene yield and selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high initial propane conversion and propene selectivity, with direct co-assembly enhancing V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, produce higher proportions of active V3+ species. Preparation methods and synthesis strategies are crucial for forming well-defined support structures and active sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and environmental concerns. Existing Cr and Pt catalysts suffer from toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, overcomes these issues. Defective OH groups facilitate the formation of active ZnOx species, enhancing propene productivity by three times at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency, with challenges including decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, focusing on supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and doped ceria for improved performance. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially co-producing alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Catalyst design aims to overcome decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, with the nature of the VOx phase being critical. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are also under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking. A new low-temperature PDH method is sought to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have developed a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures. This novel approach effectively tackles coking and cracking issues while decreasing energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, utilizing endothermic reactions catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, though active, struggle with poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism governs oxidative PDH, requiring lower temperatures for selectivity. Research explores single-atom catalysts, acid-base property adjustments, and oxygen site ratio control to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts, addressing the challenges of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Innovative design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for deactivation issues. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance, directly addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, address growing propylene demand by converting shale-gas propane. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as exemplified by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, which achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing its exceptional PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxide catalysts, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of these catalysts, specifically the role of hydroxyl groups, to suppress coke deposition and enhance stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Key challenges, particularly catalyst deactivation, are being addressed through innovative design strategies. These strategies focus on using single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to enhance selectivity and minimize coke formation, crucial for commercial PDH technologies. Enhancements include optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and incorporating alloying elements to improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, particularly through the use of V-based catalysts. Studies on VOX-SiO2 catalysts at various temperatures reveal superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, especially mesoporous γ-Al2O3, exhibit high activity and stability. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts demonstrate stability in PDH without gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, highlighting their suitability for commercial PDH processes and addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. However, coke formation during PDH hampers platinum catalyst performance and stability. Innovative strategies, including hydrogen cofeeding, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, meeting industrial needs and production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, boasting improved activity and reduced side reactions, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing PDH stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts. The number of redox Cr sites significantly affects propene yield, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These advancements are crucial for meeting growing industrial demand and navigating global energy shifts, underscoring PDH's pivotal role in the evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "PDH's evolution as a propylene production method addresses industrial demand and production limitations. Active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms remain unclear, leading to catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies, including alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, aim to enhance stability and recyclability by improving selectivity, reducing coke formation, and preventing nanoparticle sintering. Smaller particles increase active sites but also lead to diverse local environments that can cause deactivation. Strategies to inhibit deactivation focus on reducing coke formation and managing catalyst regeneration, crucial for enhancing PDH efficiency and recyclability. Understanding deactivation mechanisms is essential for designing more stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as ongoing research continues to investigate specific details.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, hindering activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored as a solution. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues. Further research is essential to resolve these challenges and enhance PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Recent advancements focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer alternatives for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance performance and stability. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, increasing Lewis acid sites for VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with facile reduction of VO bonds, produce active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, addresses these challenges. Defective OH groups are crucial for the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue, the ZnO-based catalyst exhibits three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, highlighting its environmental compatibility and enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Membrane reactors with high surface area improve efficiency, while the nature of the VOx phase is critical for high alkene selectivity. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques have evolved. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption. Seeking lower-temperature methods to reduce energy use, researchers have developed a novel CoSn/NC catalyst for microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This non-precious catalyst opens new paths for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving lattice oxygen, is pivotal in oxidative PDH, requiring temperature control for selectivity. Research explores single-atom catalysts, acid-base property modification, and oxygen site control to improve activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, addressing industrial demand for propylene, offer high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalyst design, optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, tackles deactivation issues. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance propene activity and selectivity, with monoclinic ZrO2 outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active Zrcus sites, crucial for propane activation, offering environmentally friendly and cost-efficient PDH solutions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address the growing demand for propylene by converting abundant propane, with cobalt-based catalysts showing promise due to their performance and earth's abundance. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as demonstrated by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, particularly VOx/γ-Al2O3, are promising PDH catalysts due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the catalyst's surface structure under reaction conditions to enhance stability and recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts suppress coke deposition, a key deactivation factor, improving performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues. Promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides enhance robustness against coking, while optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size ensure catalyst longevity and commercial viability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts optimized for non-oxidative PDH exhibit superior activity and stability. Bai et al. found that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 achieved high activity and stability. Sokolov et al. reported that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable catalytic properties and could be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, highlighting the high stability of VOX species. Rodemerck et al. noted the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41 for PDH, indicating V-based catalysts' potential for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "With the escalating demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, Pt catalysts used in PDH face deactivation due to coke formation, which significantly impacts performance and stability. To address this, innovative strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, addresses deactivation issues by enhancing catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, with ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial use in meeting increasing demand and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, highlighting the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion enhances catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, as high dispersion and redox chromium species are key factors. Redox cycles between Cr(III)/Cr(II), Cr(VI)/Cr(III), or Cr(V)/Cr(III) are pivotal in the oxidative pathway, with the number of redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity of AlBeta promoting propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising demand for propylene and constraints of conventional production, PDH is a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address deactivation challenges, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as highlighted in the quote: 'Innovative catalyst design strategies are under development to tackle deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing key challenges in propylene production.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the increasing industrial demand. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being tackled through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and the use of supports that promote stability and prevent agglomeration of metal nanoparticles. Alloying with promoters like Cu can elevate the energy barrier for side reactions and facilitate propylene desorption, while the addition of reducible oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying supports with alkaline promoters and incorporating metal oxides can decrease acidity, modulate dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, and enhance anti-coking capability. Adjusting reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also reduce coke formation and improve catalyst performance. These design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing the efficiency of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability, aligning with the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges such as overoxidation and reduced heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals present alternative solutions but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have toxicity concerns. Innovative strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional production methods highlight PDH techniques as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking methods have propelled propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, as a feasible alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. A major hurdle, thermally induced catalyst deactivation, has driven innovation in design strategies. These strategies, centered on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have significantly bolstered catalytic stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance through CADH, increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative for propylene production, overcoming oil-based cracking's limitations. Existing PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological harm during regeneration. An innovative method introduces environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment, facilitated by defective OH groups. The developed ZnOsilicalite-1 catalyst outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, as an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, address catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies. Supported oxides of p-block metals enhance selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux improve efficiency. Doped ceria is promising for selective hydrogen combustion, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical for high alkene selectivity in VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, reliant on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and prone to coking and cracking over time. Moreover, direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To address these challenges, researchers have developed a novel microwave catalyst, CoSn/NC, for low-temperature PDH, which significantly reduces energy consumption. This catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site and tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, offers a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, opening new possibilities for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts facing issues like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Single-atom catalysts and oxygen activity tuning are explored to improve selectivity and minimize byproducts. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties interacting with catalyst surface oxygen, is crucial for understanding oxidative dehydrogenation and guiding catalyst design. Computational methods support catalyst development by elucidating structure-reactivity relationships.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, these catalysts exhibit superior performance, making them eco-friendly and cost-effective for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, is a viable propylene production method, addressing growing demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy, as per Quote 3, significantly improves catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1 (Quote 4), exhibits outstanding PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity (over 97%), showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius (Quote 5), effectively tackling catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides serve as promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts. This approach suppresses coke deposition, enhancing stability, recyclability, and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Strategies like using additional promoters and optimizing metal-support interactions improve robustness against coking and maintain activity at high temperatures, crucial for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for conditions, exhibit superior activity and stability. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability with mesoporous γ-Al2O3 supported V-based catalysts. Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts showed stable PDH performance without O2, fully recoverable with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed VOX/MCM-41's superior properties, indicating V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst surging industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production techniques, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, an established industrial process, encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being explored to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the urgent need for efficient propylene production methods. A systematic analysis of coke formation on platinum catalysts is crucial for improving reactivity and stability in PDH, as it significantly impacts the efficiency of the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with active ZnO clusters connected to the zeolite framework, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with high thermal and acid stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high propene selectivity and high acidity promoting propane cracking. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive impact on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts, addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and enhancing propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, addressing key challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the increasing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Pt-based catalysts are pivotal in PDH, with active sites and dehydrogenation mechanisms playing a critical role. As metal particles shrink, the fraction of active sites increases, impacting dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms. The coordination structure and electronic states of Pt significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions, leading to catalyst deactivation. Strategies to overcome these challenges include alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions, aiming to increase selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles. Understanding these processes is essential for optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH stands as a promising alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, optimizing PDH for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and poor regeneration, necessitating further research. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2, lacks thermodynamic limitations but poses risks of overoxidation and lower heat formation, respectively. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates. Resolving these issues is essential for enhancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques, particularly using supported vanadium oxide catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts boost selectivity and efficiency, making PDH a viable solution in the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. While thermally induced catalyst deactivation poses a challenge, recent advancements in design strategies, including active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, effectively address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs), show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/SiO2 performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher V3+ species due to facile reduction of VO bonds. The nature of the support is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, is environmentally friendly and outperforms commercial alternatives, achieving triple the propene productivity under industrial conditions, as demonstrated in comparative testing.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PDH can lower energy requirements for dehydrogenation, enhancing efficiency. Catalyst deactivation challenges are being tackled through innovative design strategies, including supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux at dehydrogenation temperatures, and membrane reactors with high surface area. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for alkane dehydrogenation are being explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, with the VOx phase's nature critical to catalyst performance. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, often based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction modes. To tackle these challenges, researchers are innovating PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A groundbreaking approach involves a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures. This catalyst design, featuring cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as the support, promises enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts experiencing poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, focusing on improving selectivity and reducing byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, emerge as a key on-purpose production process. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, releasing lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, create active sites for propane activation, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase showing higher activity and selectivity to propene, crucial for improved PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal for PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, a spatially isolated cobalt oxide design, achieves 40% propane conversion to propene with >97% selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques, particularly using VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, emerge as a promising alternative. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative strategies are crucial, including the use of promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides to resist coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions and controlling particle size are key to developing robust catalysts that sustain activity at high temperatures, ensuring PDH's commercial success.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer an alternative, focusing on innovative catalyst design to enhance stability and recyclability. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, noted for their superior properties and stability in PDH reactions, can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, as found by Sokolov et al. Rodemerck et al. highlighted the relationship between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, underscoring VOX/MCM-41's suitability for commercial PDH. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts have shown remarkable long-term stability in PDH, as evidenced by consistent propene selectivity and slow decrease in propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hampers platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the pressing need for propylene in a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques have emerged as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions, making the catalysts cost-effective and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, notably CO2-PDH, are gaining prominence as alternatives to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are crucial for addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high chromium dispersion, vital for high catalytic performance in CO2-PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation has proven effective, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity of AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the nuanced impact of acidity on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods highlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation is crucial, necessitating innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. Further research is needed to develop these strategies effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the utilization of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent the sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. As highlighted, the fraction of active sites increases with smaller particle sizes, impacting the deactivation mechanisms. Pt-based catalysts, with their geometric and electronic structures, play a crucial role in PDH, influencing propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation is essential for enhanced performance, with strategies focusing on support modification, metal properties, and treatment methods. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms and developing effective strategies are critical for advancing PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. This evolution is crucial for meeting growing industrial demand and navigating the changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. PtSn and CrOx catalysts enable continuous operation, whereas alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5), but introduces challenges like overoxidation and reduced heat formation (Quotes 8-11). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates (Quotes 16-20). Further research is essential to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, innovating catalyst design to tackle deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Supported vanadium oxide exemplifies strategies improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Despite its promise, thermal deactivation remains a significant challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including P modification to reduce VOx polymerization and Mg modification for anti-coking capability, enhance stability and performance. The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 and direct co-assembly for V/SiO2 catalysts improve interaction and dispersion of V species. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit higher activity due to the reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing more active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability as supports. Catalyst performance is influenced by the nature of the support and the preparation method, affecting the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts by a factor of 34.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally friendly solution with three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors for dehydrogenation of alkanes offer cogeneration potential. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, with the VOx phase critical to catalyst performance. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms, and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, PDH techniques are gaining prominence. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking over time, increasing energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. To address these issues, a novel approach using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts as microwave catalysts under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) has been developed. This innovation offers a new route for the high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, addressing the need for more stable, less prone to deactivation, and recyclable catalysts in the context of changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including single-atom catalysts (SACs) for precise structure-reactivity relationships, modifying acid-base properties with alkali metals, and controlling oxygen sites for balanced activity and selectivity, are being developed. Metal-oxide interfaces and oxygen activity tuning minimize byproduct formation and enhance selectivity. Computational methods support catalyst development by elucidating C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates. These advancements address the challenges of conventional propylene production and the limitations of current PDH catalysts, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts address deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing activity and selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, are a promising alternative for propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, as demonstrated by the synthesis of spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite (CoOx@NC/S-1). This catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. Robust catalysts, critical for commercial success, withstand high temperatures and maintain long-term activity. Strategies include using promoters like transition and rare-earth metals, improving metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size and shape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques offer an alternative, optimizing both oxidative and non-oxidative processes to tackle catalyst deactivation. Innovative V-based catalysts, like VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41, exhibit high activity, stability, and recyclability when prepared under optimal conditions. VOX/MCM-41, in particular, shows full recovery with oxidative regeneration, making V-based catalysts a strong contender for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production. However, Pt catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, hampers performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed, including reductive gas cofeeding to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals like Sn for added benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations have contributed to understanding the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network, aiming to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts, enhances stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, creating active ZnO clusters. The resulting catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production, addressing deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes are increasingly significant. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, address deactivation issues and enhance stability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion produces effective CO2-assisted PDH catalysts, with redox cycles between Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 shows a positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta, but a negative effect over AlBeta, highlighting the importance of acidity in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. A major challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which can be caused by side reactions leading to the formation of coke (Quote 4). Innovative design strategies are being developed to address this issue, including the use of alloying and dealloying to modify the electronic properties of the catalysts, single atom catalysis to maximize active sites while minimizing side reactions, and the incorporation of strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and enhance stability (Quote 50). These strategies aim to improve the selectivity and stability of PDH catalysts, reduce coke formation, and prevent the aggregation of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are critical for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Detailed strategies, however, remain underdeveloped.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition, unlike established PtSn and CrOx systems (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is explored as a solution, with O2 and CO2 as investigated oxidants. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke (Quote 15). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity (Quote 20). Further research is essential to address these issues and improve PDH processes (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, pivotal in literature, enhance PDH efficiency and selectivity, addressing stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, is a promising alternative, capitalizing on propane's price advantage. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent progress focuses on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene through innovative catalyst design. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing stability. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces polymerization, improving stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) serve as high-performance supports. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3, with higher V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for catalyst design, influencing metal-support interactions. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Current technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face challenges due to Cr(VI) toxicity and ecologically harmful chlorine for regeneration. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, addresses these issues. Defective OH groups are crucial for the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, while maintaining similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). To tackle these challenges, innovative design strategies aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods for energy savings. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) is introduced, offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin promotes stability by reducing coking, and carbon nitride supports the catalyst, opens opportunities for high-value C3H8 resources utilization.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, leveraging the MVK mechanism for oxidative dehydrogenation, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. The reaction is kinetically controlled, requiring high temperatures for CH bond activation, and thermodynamic limitations are addressed by adding an oxidant to the reaction feed or system. Understanding the reaction mechanisms and pathways on catalysts remains a challenge, with side reactions like deep dehydrogenation and H migration needing consideration.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH presents a viable solution with high propene selectivity. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, featuring optimized phase composition and crystallite size, combat deactivation issues. The monoclinic phase with smaller crystallite sizes boosts activity and selectivity, outshining tetragonal ZrO2. ZrO2's capability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates essential active sites for propane activation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1, are pivotal, offering exceptional PDH performance. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic efficiency. CoOx@NC/S-1 achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using supported vanadium oxides, offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups suppress coke deposition, a major deactivation cause, enhancing stability and recyclability. Tuning hydroxyl group coverage balances activity and stability, improving performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To combat catalyst deactivation, strategies focus on stability and recyclability, employing promoters to resist coking and optimizing metal-support interactions for enhanced robustness and longevity, ensuring commercial viability in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, optimized through gelation and calcination, show superior activity, stability, and recyclability, making them suitable for commercial PDH. VOX/MCM-41 catalysts, with high stability and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, exemplify the potential of V-based catalysts in overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising solution for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces the challenge of catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which undermines performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this, including the use of reductive gases, alloying Pt with other metals, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations have also contributed insights into the deactivation mechanism. These advancements aim to improve catalyst performance in PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional methods, PDH has emerged as a direct conversion process, utilizing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites to support ZnO catalysts. These zeolites enhance activity and stability by facilitating Zn species dispersion and reducing side reactions, resulting in cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable catalysts ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, estimated to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as a viable alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites with high dispersion and redox chromium species, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues and enhancing stability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, demonstrating the critical role of acidity in achieving high selectivity to propene. This approach not only boosts propene yield but also improves the recyclability of the catalysts, making PDH a more sustainable and efficient route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, directly addressing industrial demand and the limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, aiming to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, reflecting the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, a critical challenge in PDH processes. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, focusing on the design of active sites, understanding deactivation mechanisms, and the role of metal states in reactivity. For instance, the coordination of metal atoms can significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Moreover, the selectivity of Pt-based catalysts can be improved by controlling the electronic states of the metal atoms. Deactivation, often caused by coke formation, can be inhibited through the design of specific reaction ensembles and by tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility. Strategies include the use of bimetallic compounds, modification of supports, and changes in reaction conditions. The design of catalytic systems with enhanced performance requires a deep understanding of deactivation mechanisms and the development of effective inhibition methods. These advancements in PDH catalyst design are crucial for meeting the increasing demand for propylene while improving the efficiency and sustainability of production processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through evolving design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Despite advancements, challenges remain with catalyst stability and deactivation. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5), is promising. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but introduces overoxidation challenges (Quote 9). CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition (Quote 12). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require addressing issues of catalyst regeneration and toxicity for industrial viability (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a vital alternative for propylene production, meeting industrial demand and overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thereby improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but recent design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, directly addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, particularly V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows superior performance, attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Support nature is crucial in catalyst design, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional Cr and Pt catalysts, which suffer from Cr(VI) toxicity and chlorine requirements for regeneration. An innovative method uses commercial ZnO to create environmentally friendly supported catalysts, where ZnOx species form in situ through OH group reactions at high temperatures. Defective OH groups are crucial for the formation of active ZnOx. The new ZnO-based catalyst, ZnOsilicalite-1, outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, highlighting its potential for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing demand. Challenges include decreased alkene selectivity with temperature due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux improve efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry are crucial. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors enable cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts is a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a viable alternative. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking issues. Moreover, the direct propane dehydrogenation reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is energy-intensive. To tackle these challenges, researchers have developed a novel microwave-assisted PDH method using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This catalyst, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, operates at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. This development opens a new route for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, addressing the need for sustainable and cost-effective propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt catalysts favored for their high activity but challenged by poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving oxygen vacancies and temperature-sensitive selectivity, is central to oxidative PDH, requiring careful temperature control to optimize product selectivity. These advancements strive to optimize catalysts for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a promising alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, notably ZrO2-based catalysts with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, particularly in the monoclinic phase, significantly enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation challenges and boosting PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1, show promise with active site isolation, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxides emerge as effective PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes by balancing activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Catalyst deactivation is a significant challenge, but innovative design strategies are emerging to enhance stability and recyclability. These include single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites for selective dehydrogenation, minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are crucial for commercial PDH. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements further improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative, particularly through the innovation of catalyst design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues in both oxidative and non-oxidative PDH processes. Notably, V-based catalysts, such as optimized VOX-SiO2 and VOX/MCM-41, exhibit superior catalytic activity and stability, with the latter showing high stability in the absence of gas-phase O2 and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, underscoring their potential for commercial PDH processes and addressing deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms. Computational simulations provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and aid in catalyst design and stability enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions. The active ZnO clusters, connected to the zeolite framework, are produced under precise conditions. Supported on high-silica HZSM-5, ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected demand for propylene reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as an alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation produces effective catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles involving Cr sites impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH is a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, reflecting ongoing research efforts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) address the challenges of catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in propylene production. Strategies include alloying to modulate surface electronic structure, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions to prevent sintering. These approaches aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and maintain catalytic performance through regeneration cycles. Understanding and manipulating active sites, deactivation mechanisms, and particle size are crucial for developing efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of traditional methods by addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, crucial for meeting growing industrial demand and adapting to evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, with challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts are limited, and alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx deactivate rapidly due to coke. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 shows promise; O2 eliminates coke and lowers temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have low reaction rates. Resolving these issues is crucial for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH stands as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Key challenges, such as thermally induced catalyst deactivation, are being addressed through innovative design strategies focusing on active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, ensuring improved stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, focusing on catalyst design to overcome deactivation. CADH for Al2O3 synthesis reveals crystallization temperature impacts catalytic performance by altering surface V species. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, attributed to higher V3+ species production. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing oil-based process limitations. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and ecological issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, offers an environmentally friendly solution. Defective OH groups are crucial for the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to conventional catalysts, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements for dehydrogenation. However, challenges remain due to temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity issues. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high surface area, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors can cogenerate alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, highlighting the critical role of the VOx phase in catalyst performance. The design of efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation, is also being explored. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking. A new low-temperature PDH process under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) is being developed to reduce energy consumption. Researchers have created a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. This novel microwave catalyst opens a new route for utilizing abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C, with Pt-based catalysts being active but facing issues of poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH. These advancements target the constraints of conventional methods and the growing global need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly those utilizing ZrO2-based catalysts, are emerging as a viable solution. These catalysts, optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, demonstrate enhanced stability and recyclability, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues in PDH processes. Notably, the monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes of ZrO2 exhibit superior activity and selectivity to propene, surpassing tetragonal ZrO2, making them a promising strategy for sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas, address growing propylene demand. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably CoOx@NC/S-1, show exceptional PDH performance with 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, without deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are explored as efficient PDH catalysts, with high activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies focus on hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, a major deactivation cause, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes by balancing activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, targets selective dehydrogenation and minimizes coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are essential for commercial PDH. Incorporating late transition metals, main-group metals, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides as promoters enhances stability and recyclability. Optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements further improve catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques offer an alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids, like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, show superior catalytic properties for PDH, with VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrating high stability and recyclability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles. VOX/MCM-41 exhibits full recovery with oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species, making V-based catalysts promising for commercial PDH. VOX-SiO2 catalysts with optimized conditions reveal long-term stability, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at approximately 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods have led to the prominence of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. PDH, already an industrial practice, encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single Pt atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, aiding in the development of more efficient catalysts for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, converting propane directly to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by enhancing catalytic activity and stability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, facilitate the formation of active ZnO clusters, boosting performance and recyclability. Their low cost, non-toxic nature, and reusability make them ideal for industrial propylene production, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, including oxidative and nonoxidative pathways, are gaining prominence. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion in CO2-assisted PDH boosts propene yield through redox cycles between Cr sites. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 highlights the superior performance of Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the challenges in both oxidative and nonoxidative methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and promote redispersion of metal nanoparticles. Understanding and addressing the mechanisms of catalyst deactivation, such as coke formation and sintering, is essential for the development of more efficient and recyclable PDH catalysts. As Quote [1] highlights, the active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms in PDH are crucial but not fully understood. Quote [4] emphasizes that side reactions leading to undesired products result in catalyst deactivation. Innovative design strategies aim to address these challenges, as indicated in Quote [14], where single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals showed higher propylene selectivity but at the expense of dehydrogenation activity. Understanding and controlling these mechanisms is key to enhancing the performance of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through unspecified innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Challenges in noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency persist. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are studied for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and constraints of traditional production, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively addresses deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, directly answering how PDH and catalyst advancements meet industrial needs and adapt to changing energy scenarios.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is a promising alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle. Innovative design strategies, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are being developed to improve catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer alternatives for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Catalyst design strategies, including P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, Mg addition for anti-coking properties, and CADH for synthesizing Al2O3 with enhanced Lewis acid sites, improve stability and recyclability. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via co-assembly, exhibit high activity due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 shows superior performance, attributed to the reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability, crucial for optimal VOx species formation. These strategies enhance catalytic performance, addressing deactivation challenges and meeting the needs of a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts encounter toxicity and regeneration issues. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer an environmentally friendly solution. These catalysts, with a key role of defective OH groups in active ZnOx species formation, outperform conventional ones under industrial conditions, achieving three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Challenges include temperature-induced dehydrocyclization and decreased alkene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx catalysts' nature is critical, with challenges in propene selectivity at higher conversions. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Seeking energy-efficient alternatives, researchers are developing low-temperature PDH methods. A novel approach uses a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under MCRM, addressing deactivation issues and reducing energy consumption, thus enabling high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, generating oxidation products and oxygen vacancies. These strategies aim to address deactivation issues and improve catalyst performance, supporting the development of more efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues. These eco-friendly and cost-efficient catalysts show high activity and olefin selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes. Optimization through phase composition and crystallite size is key, with monoclinic ZrO2 outperforming tetragonal ZrO2 in propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH techniques using abundant propane emerge as a viable alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, synthesized through a two-step process, demonstrates outstanding PDH performance with 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxide catalysts, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, balancing activity and stability, and enhancing recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by minimizing coke formation and promoting selective dehydrogenation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are crucial for PDH technologies. Enhancements like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides increase stability and recyclability. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements further improve catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques, utilizing V-based catalysts like VOX-SiO2, address industrial demand for propylene by overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for stability, demonstrate remarkable performance in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion decreasing minimally from 55% to 45% over 4h, while propene selectivity remains at 91%. These reasonably priced, environmentally friendly catalysts are stable for PDH without gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered with oxidative regeneration, making them suitable for commercial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge to performance and stability. Innovative design strategies, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, are being developed to mitigate coke formation and enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to improve the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes, addressing the critical need for more effective propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues. These zeolites, with their defined structure and adjusted acidity, enhance Zn dispersion and reduce side reactions. Fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites produce active ZnO clusters, making the catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially CO2-assisted PDH, emerges as a promising solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, facilitate high chromium dispersion, crucial for catalytic performance. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields effective catalysts. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly influence propene yield, with dealumination impacting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites ensures high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, effectively tackling industrial challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for addressing catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, focusing on the active sites and dehydrogenation pathways to optimize propylene production. Challenges include the formation of undesired products leading to catalyst deactivation, which can be mitigated by controlling the geometric and electronic properties of the catalysts. The design of catalytic systems with improved performance involves the inhibition of deactivation through strategies such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments. For instance, the use of single-atom alloys and intermetallic compounds can improve propylene selectivity and stability. Additionally, the interaction between Pt and supports like CeO2 can enhance thermal stability and prevent sintering. These advancements in catalyst design are essential for the efficient and sustainable production of propylene through PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation due to coke deposition, lacking full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2, shows promise: O2 reduces coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation; CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates or toxicity issues, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as evidenced by improved selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional cracking method limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a promising alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, effectively addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH for synthesizing Al2O3 with high surface area, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, increase interaction between V5+ species and silica support, promoting high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, due to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, influencing metal-support interactions and acid sites for VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of oil-based methods. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, offers an environmentally friendly solution. This catalyst shows three times higher propene productivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, making it a promising advancement in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. They aim to lower energy requirements and enhance efficiency through innovative catalyst design, focusing on stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are developed, and proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration. Challenges include decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques have gained prominence. Existing PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face challenges due to cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking. Moreover, the conventional reaction mode (CRM) for PDH is energy-intensive. To tackle these issues, researchers have developed a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and a carbon nitride phase as support, enables direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, opening a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources with reduced energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, refilled by O2 or CO2. Temperature control is crucial for high selectivity, as the reaction is kinetically controlled with CH bond activation as the rate-determining step. Research focuses on refining catalysts to balance activity and selectivity, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques emerge as a viable solution, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, particularly ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation, with smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase showing superior activity and selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas propane, is a viable propylene production alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, address deactivation issues. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances performance. A synthesized catalyst with isolated cobalt oxide sites on nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity without deactivation, offering a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of conventional methods. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with their high activity and selectivity, are pivotal in PDH. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies aim to promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and ensure robustness against high temperatures. Additional promoters and controlled metal-support interactions contribute to the catalyst's stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques, particularly using V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 supports, offer a solution by overcoming thermodynamic constraints and reducing carbon deposition. Studies highlight VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for enhanced activity and stability, crucial for industrial PDH. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. report that V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports exhibit high stability and activity, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrate remarkable long-term stability over eight cycles, maintaining 91% propene selectivity, making V-based catalysts promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges, particularly the deactivation of platinum (Pt) catalysts due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques offer a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These advancements make PDH a promising alternative for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are gaining prominence as an alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are being developed to address catalyst deactivation challenges and enhance stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for high catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation has proven effective, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity of SiBeta zeolites is suitable for achieving high selectivity to propene, while high acidity of AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in presence and absence of CO2 reveals a positive effect on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with evolving energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the development of Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts that address the challenges of active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms. Smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments of exposed atoms, impacting selectivity and stability. The interaction between Pt and supports, such as CeO2, can stabilize Pt nanoparticles and prevent sintering at high temperatures. The use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms. Modifying supports with alkaline promoters and metal oxides can decrease acidity and modulate the dispersion and electronic properties of Pt, reducing coke formation. Adjusting reaction conditions, such as cofeeding H2 and CO2, can also mitigate coke accumulation. These design strategies aim to optimize PDH catalysts for enhanced performance and longevity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH stands out as a promising alternative. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, effectively addressing industrial needs and energy landscape changes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face challenges with fast deactivation and coke deposition, lacking the practicality of PtSn and CrOx systems. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 and CO2 as oxidants, avoids thermodynamic limitations but presents unique challenges. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion, requiring frequent catalyst regeneration and facing issues of low reaction rates and toxicity. Further research is essential to resolve these issues for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH offers a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, particularly nonoxidative PDH, offer a cost-effective solution due to the favorable price ratio between propane and propylene. While thermally induced deactivation poses a challenge, recent catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key PDH process limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Catalyst design strategies, like adjusting Al2O3 crystallization temperature for VOx/Al2O3, enhance performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, synthesized via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing active V3+ species. Support nature is critical in catalyst design, influencing metal-support interactions and acid site formation. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of oil-based cracking. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and environmental drawbacks. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst preparation method offers a solution, showing three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, addressing stability and recyclability needs in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements for dehydrogenation. However, challenges arise with temperature-dependent conversion and selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx-based catalysts show promise but suffer from decreased propene selectivity with increased conversion. NiOx-based catalysts are also being explored for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Costly, scarce, or detrimental Cr6 and Pt catalysts with coking and cracking issues are replaced by CoSn/NC, a microwave catalyst under MCRM. This novel approach reduces energy consumption, enabling low-temperature PDH and high-value utilization of abundant propane resources, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, is catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, typically operating at 600°C. Pt-based catalysts, while active, face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and main-group metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface, is crucial to understanding the reaction pathways. Efforts to break thermodynamic limitations by adding an oxidant to the reaction feed or system also play a role in improving PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a key solution, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, notably ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 boost activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2, demonstrating the importance of optimizing phase composition and crystallite size for PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH, with active site isolation strategies enhancing performance. CoOx@NC/S-1 demonstrates exceptional PDH catalytic performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600°C, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides serve as promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on surface structure control and hydroxyl group presence. These enhancements suppress coke deposition, improving stability and catalyst performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in overcoming deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. These strategies aim to selectively dehydrogenate propane, minimize coke formation, and maintain activity at high temperatures. Promoters, including late transition metals, Sn, Ga, and metal oxides, bolster resistance against coking, while optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size ensure stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH with V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 supports emerges as a promising solution. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for temperature, exhibit superior stability and activity, crucial for industrial use. Bai et al. confirmed high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH performance and full recovery of VOX/MCM-41 catalysts through oxidative regeneration, underscoring VOX species' stability. These advancements indicate V-based catalysts' potential for maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity in commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a viable alternative for large-scale production. However, PDH faces challenges, notably coke formation, which hampers platinum (Pt) catalyst performance. Innovative strategies are being developed to address these issues, including the use of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to improve catalyst recyclability and stability in PDH processes, ensuring efficiency in response to growing demand. An updated analysis is crucial to understand coke formation's nature and origin, vital for catalyst regeneration and future PDH improvements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques meet growing propylene demand by directly converting propane, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve activity, reduce side reactions, and are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalysts, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are pivotal for enhancing PDH efficiency. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, enable high dispersion of chromium species, vital for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts, with redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking. Switching between PDH modes reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta, contrasting with negative impacts over AlBeta, illustrating the nuanced role of acidity and catalyst design in addressing PDH challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Tackling catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, addressing key PDH challenges. Literature acknowledges their significance but lacks detailed specifics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH efficiency and recyclability. As highlighted by Xiong et al., singly dispersed Pt atoms on CeO2 can achieve 100% propane conversion, demonstrating the potential of innovative catalyst design. Gong and coworkers have shown that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can increase propylene selectivity, albeit at the cost of dehydrogenation activity. Understanding and addressing the primary cause of catalyst deactivation, coke formation, is crucial for the design of more stable PDH catalysts. Strategies to inhibit deactivation, such as modifying supports, metals, and treatments, are being explored to enhance catalytic performance and prolong catalyst life.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and overcoming traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability in PDH processes, aligning with the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling the limitations of traditional methods and meeting rising industrial demand. Despite progress with PtSn and CrOx catalysts, challenges persist with noble metal loading, stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts, including GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, face rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising approach. O2 and CO2 serve as key oxidizing agents, with O2 preventing coke deposition but introducing overoxidation risks, and CO2 being milder but less heat-producing. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are under investigation for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be addressed for industrial application. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is crucial for effective oxidative dehydrogenation of paraffins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a promising alternative due to the price variance between propane and propylene. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but recent design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are improving stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternative production methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like CADH for synthesizing Al2O3, enhance stability and recyclability. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving catalyst stability. Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared through direct co-assembly, enhance V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site influence on VOx species. Preparation methods tune the proportion and stability of active V species. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative for propylene production, surpassing oil-based methods. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts encounter toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst design addresses these challenges, showcasing higher propene productivity and equivalent selectivity under industrial conditions, as evidenced in comparative tests against commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides of p-block metals for selective hydrogen combustion and creating membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. VOx phase nature is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Despite progress, challenges remain, including the need for higher propene yields and selectivity, especially in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are gaining prominence. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, face issues of cost, scarcity, toxicity, and long-term coking and cracking. The direct PDH reaction under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is also energy-intensive. To address these challenges, researchers are developing innovative catalyst design strategies for PDH methods that operate at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel approach involves using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), which opens a new route for the efficient utilization of abundant propane resources at low temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies optimize the MVK mechanism, control oxygen sites for balanced activity and selectivity, and utilize computational methods to understand catalyst performance and screen potential candidates, directly addressing the challenges of catalyst deactivation and instability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a leading alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, notably ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts exhibit industrially relevant activity and olefin selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 show superior performance, with the ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites crucial for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, offer a viable alternative for meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are crucial for PDH, as evidenced by the exceptional performance of the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides, particularly VOx/γ-Al2O3, are promising PDH catalysts due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the catalyst's surface structure under reaction conditions to mitigate deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts suppress coke deposition, a key deactivation factor, thus boosting performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by minimizing coke formation and promoting selective dehydrogenation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are crucial for commercial PDH. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size, and alloying elements enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH techniques offer a viable alternative, employing V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids to tackle deactivation. Studies show enhanced performance and stability in PDH reactions, with VOX/MCM-41 catalysts demonstrating high activity and stability, as reported by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. Rodemerck et al. noted the VOX/MCM-41 catalyst's superior properties, making V-based catalysts a promising choice for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts have shown remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles for PDH, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over a 4h reaction duration, while propene selectivity remains at about 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. As a direct dehydrogenation route, PDH has been industrially exploited, but faces challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which hinders performance and stability (Quote 3). To address these issues, innovative strategies are being developed, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as tin for added benefits (Quote 7), modifying supports to control coke (Quote 8), adjusting the size of Pt catalysts to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for unique mechanisms (Quote 10). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the need for enhanced stability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques offer a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO clusters, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These low-cost, toxicity-free catalysts are reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, offer optimal dispersion of chromium species, which are essential for high catalytic performance. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, as demonstrated by increased propene yield correlating with the number of redox Cr sites. The acidity of the zeolite matrix significantly influences catalytic properties, with SiBeta promoting high selectivity to propene and AlBeta promoting propane cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for addressing the evolving global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are gaining prominence. Catalyst deactivation poses a significant challenge, but innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, while showing superior activity and selectivity, require careful design to prevent deactivation. Smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. Strategies include optimizing the fraction of under-coordinated atoms, which increase with decreasing particle size, to enhance propylene production while minimizing side reactions. Understanding active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based catalysts is crucial. Alloying, single-atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) are being explored to inhibit deactivation, improve selectivity, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing PDH efficiency and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a promising alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability, as documented specifics remain scarce.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, tackling limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition and poor regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic constraints, is promising but poses risks of overoxidation. O2 eliminates coke, lowers temperatures, and makes the process exothermic, while CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. CO2 cofeeding may increase coke but can also gasify it. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration, have low reaction rates, and some are toxic, necessitating further research for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combats deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly nonoxidative PDH, is a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent advancements in catalyst design, such as active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    