Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In the context of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, how do propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address these challenges, and what innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The evolution of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative for propylene production, with a focus on addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in the context of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design strategies are addressing the challenges of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production, focusing on overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. VOx/Al2O3 catalysts synthesized through the cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH) show improved performance with optimized crystallization temperatures and vanadium loadings. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits and enhances catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts display optimal performance with high propene yields and stable selectivity. Vanadium-containing dendritic mesoporous silica nanoparticles (V-DMSNs) exhibit high STYs due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica support. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. These strategies, including support modifications and vanadium doping levels, contribute to the development of more active and stable PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecological harm issues. An innovative method creates environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts, where ZnOx species form through reductive treatment above 550C, with defective OH groups playing a key role. These catalysts, like ZnOsilicalite-1, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods through energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals enable selective hydrogen combustion, while membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux improve efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. However, challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts, necessitating further catalyst design advancements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are costly, scarce, toxic, and prone to coking, with high energy consumption under conventional modes. To address these, innovative low-temperature PDH methods are being developed to reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst has been introduced for PDH under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), offering a new route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures. This catalyst, with cobalt as the active site, tin to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride for support, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the limitations of conventional methods and meeting the increasing demand for propylene in a changing energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH emerges as a key process for efficient propene production. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts address deactivation by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, crucial for PDH performance. These catalysts, upon reductive treatment, release lattice oxygen, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2, thus addressing deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, are a promising solution for meeting the growing industrial demand for propylene. An innovative active site isolation strategy, as demonstrated by spatially isolated cobalt oxide sites within nitrogen-doped carbon layers on silicalite-1 zeolite, significantly enhances catalytic performance. This design achieves high propane conversion and propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxides, due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, are promising PDH catalysts. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of these catalysts under reaction conditions to address deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts notably suppress coke deposition, boosting performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation, boosts stability, and improves recyclability. Strategies include optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements, which minimize coke formation and ensure catalyst robustness at high temperatures. Promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides increase resistance to coking, promoting selective dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3, address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for conditions, exhibit superior catalytic activity and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH. Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. reported that V-based catalysts on Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports show high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 demonstrating full recovery through oxidative regeneration, highlighting their potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which undermines performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen to reduce coke, alloying Pt with metals such as tin for enhanced benefits, modifying supports to control coke, adjusting Pt catalyst size to influence reactivity, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts for new mechanisms. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network. These strategies aim to improve catalyst recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges of increasing propylene demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with improved activity and reduced side reactions, are low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 130 million tonnes annual demand for propylene by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical alternative to conventional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, featuring chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and boosts stability in PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion on Beta zeolites significantly enhances catalytic performance. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high selectivity to propene, while redox cycles of Cr sites contribute to propene yield. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals the positive impact on propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, underscoring the catalyst's role in optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Ongoing research develops innovative catalyst design strategies to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability. These evolving techniques reflect the dynamic landscape of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. A key challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, primarily caused by coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. Innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These include alloying to modulate surface electronic structures, incorporating reducible metal oxides to improve stability and selectivity, and applying strong metal-support interactions to prevent sintering. Additionally, modifying reaction conditions, such as co-feeding hydrogen or CO2, can help reduce coke formation. The design of catalysts with specific geometric and electronic structures is crucial for improving selectivity and stability in PDH processes. [Quote 2] highlights the need to clarify active sites and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. [Quote 26] emphasizes that the primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation, which can be mitigated through the strategies mentioned. These approaches aim to optimize PDH catalysts for enhanced efficiency and recyclability in the face of increasing industrial demand and changing global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face issues with rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and lack of full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces new challenges. O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation. CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods have propelled PDH as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, and improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and the constraints of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, presents a cost-effective alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a hurdle, yet recent catalyst design strategies, such as active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, are making strides in boosting stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering innovative catalyst design strategies. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, enhancing stability. Mg modification aids in anti-coking and boosts catalytic performance. CADH synthesizes Al2O3 with high surface area, affecting VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. Direct co-assembly for V-DMSNs enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures influence VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance. Si-beta zeolites provide high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to the reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, increasing V3+ species. Support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand amidst limitations of traditional methods. Faced with challenges like toxicity and chlorine use for regeneration, innovative ZnO-based catalysts offer an environmentally friendly solution. These catalysts form ZnOx species in situ, enhancing stability and recyclability. Notably, the new catalyst outperforms conventional ones, achieving three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, as evidenced by testing against a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements and enhancing efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies aim to overcome deactivation issues, improving stability and recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and sufficient oxygen flux are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Challenges remain, such as decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques are evolving. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, though effective, are costly, scarce, or harmful, with coking and cracking issues, and high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode. Innovative design strategies aim to develop low-temperature PDH methods to reduce energy use. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using non-precious CoSn/NC catalysts has been introduced. This approach, with cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride as support, opens new avenues for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges and enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and stability issues due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing deactivation challenges and improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques are gaining prominence for their high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, notably ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by creating active sites through lattice oxygen release upon reductive treatment. Optimized for phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts, particularly in their monoclinic form and smaller sizes, exhibit superior activity and selectivity to propene, surpassing tetragonal ZrO2, thus enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, is a viable propylene production method, addressing traditional limitations. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH. The active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. A CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, with isolated cobalt oxide sites, exhibits outstanding PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, illustrating innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques, particularly using supported vanadium oxides, emerge as a promising alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, notably the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, a major cause of deactivation, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Key challenges, such as catalyst deactivation, are being addressed through innovative design strategies. Techniques like using single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial for commercial PDH. Strategies to overcome deactivation include employing promoters like late transition metals, main-group metals, and metal oxides to enhance resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and incorporating alloying elements further improve catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH presents a viable alternative, particularly through innovative catalyst design. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, especially mesoporous γ-Al2O3-supported ones, exhibit high activity and stability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, demonstrate exceptional long-term stability in PDH reactions, with propane conversion rates maintaining around 55% and propene selectivity at 91% over eight cycles. This highlights V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH processes, offering a method to produce propylene that avoids thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and reduces carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production. PDH, already in industrial use, faces challenges due to catalyst deactivation, particularly from coke formation. Innovative strategies are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability, including adding reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to improve catalyst performance in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing industrial demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, bypassing steam cracking, and address industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, enhances stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with optimized acidity and textural properties, boost catalytic activity, minimize side reactions, and are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is emerging as a viable alternative to traditional production methods. Selective processes like PDH, olefin metathesis, and methanol-to-propene (MTP) are gaining traction. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH, with redox Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites favors propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons, illustrating the importance of catalyst design in optimizing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites with specific geometric and electronic properties to improve selectivity and prevent side reactions that lead to deactivation. Particle size is crucial, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments, affecting reactivity. The interaction between intermediates and the catalyst's surface is critical, as it influences propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Deactivation often results from coke formation, which preferentially covers uncoordinated active sites, leading to decreased catalytic activity. Strategies to inhibit deactivation involve modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. For instance, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve stability and selectivity by transferring electrons to Pt atoms. Alumina, a conventional support, can be modified with alkaline promoters to reduce acidity and curb coke formation. Additionally, changes in reaction conditions, such as the co-feeding of H2 and CO2, can positively impact coke elimination. The confinement of metal nanoparticles within supports can prevent sintering and maintain stability at high temperatures. These design strategies are crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face deactivation issues due to coke deposition and lack of full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a viable approach, fully converting paraffins by combusting hydrogen. O2 and CO2 are leading oxidants, each presenting unique advantages and challenges. Finding the right catalyst-oxidant combination is critical. Alternative solutions, including solid oxygen carriers and noble metals, require addressing issues like catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity for industrial viability. Further research is necessary to address these issues and improve PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, effectively tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting demand and adapting to energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of traditional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving to meet industrial demand for propylene, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Catalyst design strategies focus on enhancing stability and recyclability. The CADH approach for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3 improves VOx/Al2O3 catalysts' performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, boosting stability. Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, show high activity and stability due to strong V5+ interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to the production of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial, influencing metal-support interactions and acid site formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of toxic Cr and Pt catalysts. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, overcomes these issues. Defective OH groups play a key role in the formation of active ZnOx species. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, the ZnO catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity under industrial conditions, offering a promising solution to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements. However, challenges with alkene selectivity at higher temperatures persist. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors for high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging. Traditional PDH catalysts, reliant on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and prone to coking and cracking over time, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). Aiming to address these challenges, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed for use under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This method operates at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and offering a new route for efficient utilization of abundant propane resources. The CoSn/NC catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to mitigate coking, and carbon nitride as support, represents a promising solution for sustainable PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, which face challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Researchers are innovating catalyst design strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and main-group metals, and modifying carriers, to boost stability, improve recyclability, and overcome deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, also known as the lattice oxygen mechanism, plays a crucial role in oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants with reducing properties react with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface to generate oxidation products and form oxygen vacancies. These advancements aim to refine the PDH mechanism, enhancing its efficiency and reliability in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. ZrO2-based catalysts, particularly in the monoclinic phase with smaller crystallite sizes, enhance activity and selectivity to propene, outperforming tetragonal ZrO2. These cost-efficient catalysts, when treated reductively, release lattice oxygen, generating coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations essential for propane activation, thus improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, is a promising propylene production method, overcoming traditional limitations. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal, with active site isolation enhancing performance. A synthesized CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst achieves 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Supported vanadium oxides, as PDH catalysts, are active and selective, with regeneration capabilities. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which improve stability by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies. These strategies include using single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites to promote selective dehydrogenation and minimize coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential. To overcome deactivation, strategies involve optimizing metal-support interactions, particle size, and shape, and using promoters like late transition metals and rare-earth metal oxides to improve stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative, particularly through V-based catalysts like VOX/MCM-41 and VOX-SiO2. These catalysts, supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, exhibit high activity and stability. VOX/MCM-41 shows full recovery after oxidative regeneration, highlighting its potential for commercial PDH processes and addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a viable alternative for propylene production. PDH, an established industrial process, encounters challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to address deactivation, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with metals like Sn, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance catalyst recyclability and stability in PDH processes, aligning with industrial needs and production advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, such as utilizing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These catalysts, with their fine structure and sparse Al sites, improve catalytic activity, reduce side reactions, and are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and other selective processes are gaining significance. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion boosts catalytic performance, with low acidity in SiBeta promoting high propene selectivity. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, as evidenced by the well correlation between the number of redox Cr sites and propene yield up to 2wt % of Cr.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and constraints of conventional production, PDH stands as a viable alternative, innovating catalyst design to tackle deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability, critical for both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with shifting energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include optimizing the fraction of under-coordinated atoms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, which are crucial for propylene production while minimizing side reactions and catalyst deactivation. Particle size is a critical factor, as smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments. The goal is to develop catalysts that are selective for propylene production and can withstand the rigors of PDH processes, including high temperatures and complex atmospheres, without significant deactivation or sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, as current literature highlights the need for such advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are evolving as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. Catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke deposition, poses a significant challenge. Innovative design strategies aim to enhance stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, shows promise; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperature but risks overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals (Pt, Au) offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent catalyst regeneration and have low reaction rates. Resolving these issues is crucial for the industrial viability of PDH techniques.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution, notably through the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts. These innovative designs combat deactivation, boost stability, and enhance recyclability, crucial for efficient propylene production in evolving industrial and energy contexts.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a viable alternative due to the propane-propylene price disparity. Catalyst deactivation remains a hurdle, but advancements in design strategies, such as active site regulation and support modification, significantly improve stability and recyclability, addressing key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer alternatives for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, with CADH synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 boosting catalytic performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification enhances anti-coking capability and catalytic performance. Direct co-assembly of V-DMSNs enhances V5+ interaction with silica, promoting high activity and stability. Gelation and calcination temperatures significantly influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Dealuminated beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability, crucial for metal-support interactions. VOx/ZrO2 exhibits higher activity due to facile reduction of VO bonds, producing active V3+ species. Preparation methods can optimize the proportion and stability of active V species, crucial for catalyst design. V-based catalyst performance varies, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional Cr and Pt catalysts that suffer from toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, overcomes these challenges. Defective OH groups are crucial for forming active ZnOx species, enhancing the catalyst's performance. Under industrial conditions, this catalyst outperforms commercial alternatives, achieving three times higher propene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods and increasing industrial demand. These techniques aim to lower energy requirements and improve efficiency by utilizing innovative catalyst design strategies. Challenges arise with temperature increases, leading to decreased alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization, aromatization, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion, solid oxygen carriers with high flux, and membrane reactors for high surface area are crucial in overcoming these challenges. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. VOx catalysts face the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increased alkane conversion, highlighting the critical nature of the VOx phase. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods have driven the development of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Traditional PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from long-term coking and cracking. Direct PDH under conventional reaction mode (CRM) is also energy-intensive. To address these issues, a novel CoSn/NC catalyst has been developed as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) for the first time. This innovative approach offers a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures, reducing energy consumption and addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing issues like poor selectivity and rapid deactivation. Innovative strategies, including doping with metals like Ga and Sn and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, central to oxidative PDH, involves reactants interacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms. To prevent over-oxidation, reactions are conducted at lower temperatures for higher selectivity. Researchers are exploring advanced catalyst designs, such as single-atom catalysts and oxygen site control, to improve selectivity and reduce byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, with high propene selectivity, address industrial demand for propylene. Innovative ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized by phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, particularly in the monoclinic phase, enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. The ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are optimized for PDH. An innovative active site isolation strategy boosts catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst (CoOx@NC/S-1) achieves 40% propane conversion, >97% propene selectivity, and no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of conventional methods. Vanadium oxide catalysts, with their activity and regeneration capabilities, are pivotal. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in nonoxidative PDH processes, crucial for balancing activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, employing innovative catalyst design strategies to combat deactivation. Single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts enhance stability and recyclability by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial for commercial PDH success, with optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, offer a viable alternative. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibit long-term stability and recyclability in PDH, with propane conversion rates gradually decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles while maintaining 91% propene selectivity. The VOX/MCM-41 catalyst's full recovery through oxidative regeneration highlights its stability and commercial potential, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a viable alternative. PDH, a direct route for propylene production, faces challenges with Pt catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation. Innovative strategies, including reductive gas cofeeding, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, support modification, adjusting Pt catalyst size, and exploring single Pt atom catalysts, aim to reduce coke and enhance stability. Computational simulations using DFT provide insights into deactivation mechanisms and the PDH reaction network, crucial for catalyst design and recyclability improvements in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a direct conversion of propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO, effectively addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with controlled acidity, disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, producing active ZnO clusters under fine structure conditions. The resulting ZnO catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5, are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Facing a projected demand of 130 million tonnes of propylene by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion on Beta zeolites enhances CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH in the presence and absence of CO2 reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling traditional limitations and meeting industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, improving efficiency and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. For instance, the fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as metal particles shrink, affecting the number of active sites. Pt-based catalysts, with their electronic states, significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The design of catalytic systems that inhibit deactivation is crucial for improved performance, with strategies focusing on support modification, metal properties, and treatment methods. Understanding the deactivation mechanisms and proposing effective strategies are key to advancing PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Catalysts like PtSn and CrOx allow continuous operation but face challenges in stability and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts deactivate quickly due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is promising with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperatures but risking overoxidation, and CO2 consuming H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but resulting in less heat and potential additional coke. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration, low reaction rates, and toxicity must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints highlight PDH techniques as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing the core challenge in both oxidative and nonoxidative environments.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative due to the favorable price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercialization, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing catalytic stability and recyclability through active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing the deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing VOx/Al2O3 performance. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity due to enhanced V5+ interaction with silica. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, with higher proportions of active V3+ species, are five times more active than VOx/Al2O3. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site formation. The most active V-based catalysts are less active than Pt catalysts but show significant promise in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, overcomes these challenges. This catalyst, with active ZnOx species, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, making it a promising solution for enhanced PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods by lowering energy requirements for dehydrogenation. However, challenges remain with alkene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and designing solid oxygen carriers with high flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area improve efficiency. NiOx-based catalysts are being developed for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion remains. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts, which are costly, scarce, or harmful with long-term coking and cracking issues, researchers have developed a novel CoSn/NC catalyst. This non-precious catalyst operates under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) for direct propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, addressing the need for reduced energy consumption and offering a new route for high-value utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being prevalent despite challenges with selectivity, deactivation, and stability at high temperatures. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These approaches tackle deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, particularly addressing the MVK mechanism's challenges in oxidative dehydrogenation, where reactants interact with surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts by understanding the effects of structure on C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a pivotal process, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, notably ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation by enhancing stability and recyclability. Optimized through phase composition and crystallite size, these catalysts release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment, creating active sites for propane activation. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 demonstrate superior activity and selectivity, making them eco-friendly and cost-effective for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, meet rising propylene demand by converting propane to propene. Cobalt-based catalysts, noted for their abundance and effectiveness, are pivotal in PDH processes. An innovative active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A novel catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxides, as PDH catalysts, exhibit high activity, proper propylene selectivity, and superior regeneration. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of vanadium catalysts to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability, particularly in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metals, combats deactivation by minimizing coke formation. Promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides bolster resistance against coking. Optimized metal-support interactions and controlled particle size enhance stability and recyclability, crucial for PDH's commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. V-based catalysts on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3 are being optimized for enhanced stability and recyclability. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination, exhibit superior activity and stability. Bai et al. confirmed high activity and stability with V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. reported stable PDH performance and full recovery with oxidative regeneration for VOX/MCM-41 catalysts. Rodemerck et al. highlighted the correlation between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, underscoring the potential of V-based catalysts for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) stands as a viable alternative for large-scale production, already implemented in industry (Quote 2). However, Pt catalysts in PDH face significant deactivation due to coke formation, impacting performance and stability (Quote 3). Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (Quote 6), alloying Pt with metals such as Sn (Quote 7), modifying supports, adjusting Pt catalyst size (Quote 9), and exploring single Pt atom catalysts (Quote 10). These approaches aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability, addressing the challenges of increasing propylene demand and the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative by directly converting propane to propylene. Innovative catalyst design, specifically using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making the ZnO catalysts cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a growing demand for propylene, reaching 130 million tonnes by 2023, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a critical alternative to traditional production methods. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion enhances catalytic performance in CO2-assisted PDH, with redox cycles between Cr sites significantly impacting propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching operation modes between PDH with and without CO2 reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, demonstrating the effectiveness of these design strategies in enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and production constraints, PDH is recognized as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, crucial advancements in the evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, particularly in tackling catalyst deactivation. These strategies include optimizing active sites and understanding deactivation mechanisms, influenced by particle size, which impacts selectivity and stability. Smaller particles increase active sites but diversify local environments, affecting selectivity and stability. The challenge lies in the structure sensitivity of side reactions, leading to the formation of undesired products and catalyst deactivation. Design strategies aim to improve selectivity towards propylene production while minimizing the formation of coke, a primary cause of deactivation. The electronic and geometric states of active sites significantly influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. Understanding these mechanisms is essential for the development of more stable and selective PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, crucial for meeting global energy demands.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and method limitations. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts, while competitive, face challenges in stability and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, with limited recovery through regeneration (Quote 2, 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5), is promising; O2 eliminates coke, lowers reaction temperature, and makes the process exothermic, but risks overoxidation affecting olefin selectivity (Quote 6, 8, 9). CO2, a milder oxidant, consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation, keeping the reaction endothermic (Quote 11). CO2 cofeeding may increase coke deposition but can also gasify it, affecting catalyst performance through competitive adsorption (Quote 13). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, requiring frequent catalyst regeneration and addressing low reaction rates and toxicity issues for industrial viability (Quote 15).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, crucial in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, enhance selectivity and efficiency, tackling stability and recyclability issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing propylene demand and constraints of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements in PDH catalyst design, focusing on stability and recyclability, have shown promise. Strategies include active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation challenges while aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternatives to traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg modification to boost anti-coking capability, enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalyst performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ species interaction with silica. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst support nature is crucial for metal-support interactions and acid site influence on surface VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance of V-based catalysts varies, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based propylene production, meeting industrial demand. Traditional Cr/Pt catalysts encounter toxicity and regeneration challenges. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offer environmental compatibility. These catalysts, with defective OH groups playing a key role, demonstrate three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux, are being developed to enhance stability and recyclability. Membrane reactors with high surface area are also being explored for improved efficiency. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are being investigated for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. However, decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts remains a challenge, and the nature of the VOx phase is critical. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being studied, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are advancing. Traditional Cr6 and Pt-based PDH catalysts are expensive, scarce, and suffer from long-term deactivation due to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for low-temperature PDH to mitigate these issues. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced, offering a new, efficient route for propane utilization at lower temperatures. This design, featuring cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce coking, and carbon nitride as the support, opens opportunities for high-value conversion of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has surfaced as a viable alternative. This endothermic process, catalyzed by Pt- and Cr-based catalysts at 600°C, faces challenges like poor propylene selectivity and fast deactivation due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, such as doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, are being explored to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, involving the reaction of reducing reactants with catalyst surface oxygen to form oxygen vacancies, is crucial in oxidative dehydrogenation. However, the process requires careful temperature control to achieve high selectivity. Computational methods support catalyst development by understanding the effects of structure on C-H bond activation and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, offering high propene selectivity, address limitations in traditional propylene production. Innovative catalyst design, such as ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase of ZrO2 increase activity and selectivity, crucial for propane activation, making PDH a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH techniques utilizing shale-gas propane emerge as a solution. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with isolated active sites boosting performance. The CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, a cobalt-based innovation, exhibits outstanding PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation observed after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using supported vanadium oxides, emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups on vanadium catalysts, mitigate deactivation by suppressing coke deposition, enhancing stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Addressing catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies, like single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, promote selective dehydrogenation while minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures, are crucial for commercial PDH. Enhancing stability and recyclability through optimized metal-support interactions, controlled particle size, and alloying elements is pivotal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH presents a viable alternative, particularly through innovative catalyst design. V-based catalysts, supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, show superior properties for PDH, with VOX-SiO2 catalysts exhibiting long-term stability across multiple cycles. Studies confirm high activity and stability of V-based catalysts, especially on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, making them promising for commercial PDH, overcoming thermodynamic limitations and reducing carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as a viable route for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH encounters significant challenges with platinum (Pt) catalyst deactivation, primarily due to coke formation, which compromises catalytic performance and stability. To address this, innovative design strategies are being explored, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single atom catalysts. These approaches aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, ensuring efficient propylene production methods that meet the demands of a changing global energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques directly convert propane to propylene, addressing industrial demand for propylene. Innovative design strategies, like using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, enhance stability and recyclability. These zeolites improve catalytic activity by dispersing Zn species and reducing side reactions, making ZnO catalysts low-cost, toxicity-free, and reusable, thus overcoming deactivation challenges in industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, spotlighting propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and related techniques like olefin metathesis and methanol-to-propene (MTP) as viable alternatives. Innovative catalyst design, notably chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, boosting stability and recyclability in PDH processes. These zeolites, with their unique structure and high thermal and acid stability, are optimal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly enhance propene yield, with dealumination proving pivotal to catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites facilitates high selectivity to propene, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH offers a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as highlighted in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that are selective for propylene production, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms such as coke formation and sintering, and the use of supports that can inhibit deactivation. For instance, smaller particle sizes increase the number of active sites but also diversify the local environments, impacting deactivation rates. The interaction between metals and supports, such as Pt on CeO2, can stabilize nanoparticles and prevent deactivation. Additionally, the control of reaction conditions, like the addition of H2 and CO2, can reduce coke formation and improve catalyst stability. These advancements in catalyst design are crucial for the efficiency and sustainability of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving global energy dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are pivotal for meeting the rising demand for propylene, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Traditional PtSn and CrOx catalysts have advanced PDH processes but face challenges like noble metal loading and stability issues. Alternative catalysts such as GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition and incomplete regeneration (Quote 3). Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 shows promise; O2 eliminates coke and lowers reaction temperatures but risks overoxidation (Quote 9), while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat and may cause additional coke deposition (Quote 11). Solid oxygen carriers like CeO2 and noble metals are being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion (Quote 16), but issues with catalyst regeneration, reaction rates, and toxicity (Quote 19) must be resolved for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, nonoxidative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a viable alternative, leveraging the price disparity between propane and propylene. Key challenges, such as thermally induced deactivation, are being addressed through innovative catalyst design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability, focusing on active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovations like CADH for synthesizing Al2O3 enhance VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification decreases VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification reduces coke deposits, boosting catalytic performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, such as V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the interaction between V5+ species and silica support. VOx/SiO2 catalysts' performance is influenced by gelation and calcination temperatures. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts, five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, benefit from higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites' influence on VOx species. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies significantly, with the most active being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity or ecological harm issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through reductive treatment, overcomes these challenges. This catalyst, leveraging defective OH groups for active ZnOx species formation, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity than commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, providing an environmentally compatible solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, potentially lowering energy requirements through oxidative dehydrogenation. Innovative catalyst design strategies address deactivation challenges, utilizing supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and developing membrane reactors with high oxygen flux and surface area. Doped ceria enhances selectivity, while membrane reactor efficiency depends on membrane type and geometry. Proton-conducting membrane fuel cell reactors are explored for cogeneration. Decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over VOx catalysts highlights the critical role of the VOx phase. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being investigated, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, innovative propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging. Traditional PDH catalysts, reliant on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking, with high energy consumption under conventional reaction mode (CRM). Seeking to address these issues, researchers are developing a new PDH method at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel CoSn/NC catalyst, acting as a microwave catalyst under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM), has been introduced for the first time. This innovation not only tackles catalyst deactivation challenges but also enhances stability and recyclability, offering a high-value utilization of abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence as a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, utilizes Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being widely adopted despite challenges such as unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and poor stability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including the use of promoters like late transition metals and modifications to carriers, are being explored to enhance stability, improve recyclability, and address deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies aim to optimize the performance of Pt-based catalysts, ensuring higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, while considering the MVK mechanism and the need for temperature control in oxidative PDH to prevent over-oxidation. The activation of the CH bond in propane, a rate-determining step, requires high temperatures, highlighting the importance of catalyst stability and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. ZrO2-based catalysts, environmentally friendly and cost-efficient, provide high propene selectivity. Optimizing phase composition and crystallite size enhances stability and recyclability, crucial for overcoming deactivation issues. The monoclinic phase and smaller crystallite sizes of ZrO2 show higher activity and selectivity to propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, PDH techniques utilizing shale-gas propane emerge as a viable alternative. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with the active site isolation strategy enhancing performance. A novel catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, demonstrates exceptional PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene by offering an alternative production route. Vanadium oxide catalysts, due to their high activity and selectivity, are emerging as promising options. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling the surface structure of these catalysts, particularly the role of surface-bound hydroxyl groups, which suppress coke deposition and enhance stability, leading to improved recyclability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues. These strategies enhance stability and recyclability by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, resistant to high temperatures and coking, are crucial for commercial PDH technologies. Optimal metal-support interactions and controlled particle size contribute to enhanced stability and recyclability, directly addressing the challenges of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques, particularly those employing V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2 and Al2O3, offer a viable alternative. Studies by Bai et al., Sokolov et al., and Rodemerck et al. highlight the superior catalytic properties of these catalysts, demonstrating high activity, stability, and recyclability in PDH processes. VOX-SiO2 catalysts, optimized for gelation and calcination temperatures, avoid thermodynamic equilibrium limitations and minimize carbon deposition. VOX/MCM-41 shows full recovery after oxidative regeneration, attributed to the high stability of VOX species, making V-based catalysts promising for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, already in use, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, which impairs performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying platinum with metals like tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts, as highlighted in quote 3, 6, 7, 8, and 9. These advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer a viable alternative. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as utilizing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, effectively disperse Zn species, reducing side reactions. Small ZnO clusters, connected to the HZSM-5 framework, act as active phases, produced under precise conditions. The resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), including oxidative and nonoxidative processes, is a key solution. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective CO2-PDH catalysts. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield, with dealumination affecting catalytic properties. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH is a viable alternative, addressing catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle the issue of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include the use of alloying and dealloying to modify the electronic and geometric properties of catalysts, single atom catalysis to maximize active sites while minimizing deactivation, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering and improve dispersion. As highlighted by Xiong et al., the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2, demonstrating the effectiveness of single atom catalysis. Furthermore, Gong and coworkers showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals can lead to higher propylene selectivity, illustrating the potential of alloying in PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH stands as a promising alternative. Addressing catalyst deactivation challenges, innovative design strategies are essential to enhance stability and recyclability, although specifics remain underexplored in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Despite advancements, deactivation issues with PtSn and CrOx catalysts persist, necessitating innovative design strategies for enhanced stability and recyclability. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and heat management. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals show potential but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity concerns. Further research aims to optimize catalysts and oxidizing agents for industrial viability, focusing on overcoming catalyst deactivation and improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges through innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance stability, recyclability, and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing propylene demand and the constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, stands out as a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its commercial use, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent developments in PDH catalyst design, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, have significantly improved stability and recyclability, effectively tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer alternative propylene production methods, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including CADH for high-surface-area Al2O3 synthesis, P and Mg modification of VOx/Al2O3 to reduce polymerization and coking, and V/SiO2 catalyst preparation, enhance stability and recyclability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts exhibit increased activity due to higher proportions of active V3+ species. These strategies improve catalytic performance and stability, crucial for meeting industrial needs and adapting to changing energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a vital alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts have toxicity and environmental drawbacks. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through OH group reactions above 550C, offers an environmentally friendly solution. Defective OH groups are key for active ZnOx species formation. Compared to commercial KCrOx/Al2O3, this catalyst triples propene productivity while maintaining similar selectivity, effectively tackling PDH catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, with doped ceria showing promise. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored, offering potential for cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, impacting propene selectivity. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. (Quote 10) (Quote 11) (Quote 13) (Quote 14) (Quote 16) (Quote 19) (Quote 20) (Quote 27) (Quote 30) (Quote 31) (Quote 33) (Quote 35) (Quote 36) (Quote 37) (Quote 38) (Quote 40) (Quote 41) (Quote 43) (Quote 46) (Quote 47) (Quote 48) (Quote 49) (Quote 50) (Quote 51) (Quote 52)", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. Costly, scarce, and toxic Cr6 and Pt catalysts, prone to coking and cracking, have high energy consumption. New PDH methods at lower temperatures reduce energy use. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst under MCRM opens a route for efficient propane utilization, enhancing stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies control oxygen sites on the catalyst surface, balance activity and selectivity, and reduce byproduct formation, addressing deactivation issues in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative PDH, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, which are then refilled by O2 or CO2, forming a catalytic cycle. Thermodynamic limitations and the need for higher temperatures in PDH highlight the importance of these design strategies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing ZrO2-based catalysts, address industrial demand for propylene by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing activity and selectivity. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase improve PDH performance. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, as evidenced by exceptional performance in propane conversion to propene with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, thanks to the active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Vanadium oxide catalysts, pivotal in PDH, are optimized through surface structure control, particularly by managing hydroxyl group coverage. This innovation suppresses coke deposition, a key deactivation cause, thereby enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, aligning with industrial needs and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are essential, focusing on single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites. These advancements aim to enhance selectivity, minimize coke formation, and improve stability and recyclability. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are crucial. Strategies include employing late transition metals, main-group metals like Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides to boost resistance against coking. Optimizing metal-support interactions, controlling particle size and shape, and alloying elements further enhance catalyst stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH techniques, particularly those employing V-based catalysts supported on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are emerging as viable alternatives. These catalysts, especially when supported on Al2O3 and MCM-41, exhibit high activity and stability, with VOX/MCM-41 showing full recovery after oxidative regeneration. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, prepared under specific conditions, demonstrate superior catalytic activity, stability, and recyclability in non-oxidative PDH processes, maintaining propane conversion and propene selectivity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a promising alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which hinders the performance and stability of platinum (Pt) catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to mitigate these issues, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen, alloying Pt with metals such as tin, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations using density functional theory (DFT) have provided insights into the deactivation mechanism and the complex PDH reaction network, aiming to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, address deactivation issues by improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their well-defined structure and adjusted acidity, help disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions. Small ZnO clusters connected with the zeolite framework act as active phases, produced under fine structure conditions and sparse Al sites. The ZnO catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained, leading to the exploration of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques. Alternative PDH processes, including oxidative and nonoxidative methods, are gaining importance. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, are essential for overcoming deactivation issues and enhancing stability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation produces effective catalysts. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites promotes high selectivity to propene, while high acidity in AlBeta zeolites promotes propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, PDH offers a viable solution. Tackling catalyst deactivation, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability are pivotal through innovative design strategies, crucial for meeting industrial needs and navigating energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the challenges of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to tackle issues of catalyst deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in PDH processes. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). They aim to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thus boosting the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. Understanding the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways, and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts is crucial. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also the diversity of exposed atoms, which can lead to deactivation. The fraction of under-coordinated atoms increases as particle size decreases, affecting the selectivity and stability of the catalyst. Design strategies must consider the geometric and electronic states of the catalyst to influence propylene adsorption and potential side reactions. The first CH bond activation is the rate-determining step, and the energy barriers for cracking and dehydrogenation must be carefully managed. Catalyst deactivation is primarily due to coke formation, which covers active sites and blocks reactant access. Strategies to inhibit deactivation include modifying supports, metals, and treatments to prevent coke formation and manage the electronic and geometric properties of the catalyst. The stability of Pt-based catalysts can be enhanced by understanding and addressing deactivation mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies to boost stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are crucial for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PtSn and CrOx catalysts lead in PDH, but alternatives like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx struggle with rapid deactivation and coke deposition (Quote 2,3). Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limitations (Quote 5,6) but poses challenges like overoxidation and heat management (Quote 9). Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion potential (Quote 16), but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity issues (Quote 19,20). Further research is essential for enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability, developing effective oxidative dehydrogenation systems (Quote 4,15).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable solution. Innovations in catalyst design, particularly supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combat deactivation, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to rising propylene demand and limitations of conventional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, offers a competitive alternative, capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. While thermally induced deactivation poses a challenge, recent innovations in catalyst design, such as active site regulation and enhanced metal-support interaction, aim to improve stability and recyclability, addressing key issues in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering alternatives to traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, enhance VOx/Al2O3 performance by increasing Lewis acid sites. P modification reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to the direct co-assembly process. Gelation and calcination temperatures significantly influence VOx/SiO2 performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 catalysts are more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, metal-support interactions, and acid sites for optimal VOx species distribution. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species, as demonstrated by the enhanced performance of VOx/ZrO2 and VOx/Si-beta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing the limitations of toxic Cr and chlorine-requiring Pt catalysts. Innovative ZnO-based catalysts, formed through reactions with support OH groups at high temperatures, show three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts. This development tackles deactivation challenges, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. They potentially lower energy requirements but face challenges with alkene selectivity due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and proton-conducting membrane reactors, enhance stability and recyclability. Potassium minimizes the influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity, while doped ceria improves selectivity in hydrogen combustion. Cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy is explored in membrane fuel cell reactors. However, VOx catalysts struggle with decreased propene selectivity at higher conversions. Supported oxides of p-block metals and NiOx-based catalysts are being investigated for their electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 offer new perspectives in developing efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques are evolving. Existing PDH catalysts, based on Cr6 and Pt, are expensive, scarce, or harmful, with long-term coking and cracking issues. Direct PDH under conventional reaction mode is energy-intensive. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed for PDH at lower temperatures to reduce energy consumption. A novel microwave catalytic reaction mode using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst has been introduced. Cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to minimize coking, and carbon nitride phase supports the catalyst, opening new avenues for efficient, low-temperature utilization of abundant propane resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production constraints, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic process, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping with late transition metals and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. The MVK mechanism, crucial for oxidative dehydrogenation, involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen, forming oxygen vacancies that can be refilled by O2 or CO2, creating a catalytic cycle. Strategies to improve selectivity and reduce byproduct formation include single-atom catalysts, adjusting acid-base properties, and controlling oxygen site ratios on the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable solution, offering high propene selectivity. ZrO2-based catalysts, optimized by phase composition and crystallite size, are pivotal in addressing deactivation issues. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene, with the ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment being crucial for active site creation. This innovation significantly boosts PDH performance, enhancing stability and recyclability in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method. Cobalt-based catalysts, notably abundant and effective, are pivotal. The active site isolation strategy, exemplified by the CoOx@NC/S-1 catalyst, significantly boosts PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques are emerging as a viable alternative. Supported vanadium oxides are being explored as promising PDH catalysts, with innovative design strategies focusing on controlling surface structure and hydroxyl group coverage to suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts are crucial for improving stability by inhibiting coke formation, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amid growing demand for propylene, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Innovative catalyst design, including single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by promoting selective dehydrogenation and minimizing coke formation. Robust catalysts, with enhanced metal-support interactions and controlled particle size, are crucial for PDH's success, ensuring stability and recyclability at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly those employing V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, offer an alternative production route. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. demonstrate the superior catalytic activity and stability of V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41 supports, respectively, in PDH reactions. These catalysts show high resistance to deactivation and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration, making them suitable for commercial PDH processes. Rodemerck et al. further support the use of V-based catalysts, noting their stability and recyclability over eight reaction-regeneration cycles, with propane conversion rates and propene selectivity remaining high. These findings underscore the potential of V-based catalysts to address industrial needs and environmental concerns in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative for large-scale propylene production. However, PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, particularly due to coke formation, which undermines performance and stability. Innovative design strategies are being developed to mitigate coke formation, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying platinum with metals, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts. These strategies aim to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, addressing the challenges posed by increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, converting propane directly to propylene, address industrial demand and traditional production limitations. Innovative catalyst design, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites supporting ZnO clusters, enhances stability and recyclability. These cost-effective, toxicity-free catalysts improve activity and reduce side reactions, making them ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, highlights the importance of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as an alternative production method. Innovative catalyst design, particularly the use of chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues and enhances stability in PDH processes. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion on Beta zeolites boosts catalytic performance, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a crucial role. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, while high acidity in AlBeta promotes propane cracking. Switching between PDH with and without CO2 shows enhanced propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalysts in addressing industrial challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH emerges as a viable alternative, innovatively addressing catalyst deactivation to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with evolving global energy landscapes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. PDH techniques convert propane to propylene, addressing the need for increased production. However, catalyst deactivation remains a significant challenge, leading to the development of innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include the use of alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI). The goal is to improve selectivity and stability, reduce coke formation, and prevent sintering of metal nanoparticles, thereby optimizing PDH processes. Active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are crucial for understanding PDH, and small particles, while increasing active sites, also diversify the fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments, impacting deactivation. Innovative design strategies aim to overcome these challenges, ensuring the longevity and efficiency of PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable propylene production method, addressing industrial demand and traditional limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for tackling deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, as highlighted in the quote: 'PDH emerges as a viable propylene production method, tackling industrial demand and traditional method limitations.'", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and the rise in industrial demand. Despite advancements in PtSn and CrOx catalysts, allowing for continuous operation, challenges remain, including noble metal loading, catalyst stability, and energy efficiency. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx have been explored but suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation, lacking thermodynamic limitations, is a promising alternative. O2 and CO2 are key oxidizing agents, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperatures but introducing overoxidation risks, while CO2 consumes H2 but results in less heat formation and potential additional coke deposition. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are also being investigated for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and limitations of conventional methods. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and limitations of traditional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), notably nonoxidative PDH, emerges as a promising alternative, capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. Despite its potential, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent advancements focus on enhancing PDH catalyst stability and recyclability through strategies like active site regulation, improved metal-support interaction, and support modification, addressing deactivation issues effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene, employing innovative catalyst design strategies. CADH synthesizes mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing catalytic performance via increased Lewis acid sites. P modification of VOx/Al2O3 reduces VOx polymerization, improving stability, while Mg modification boosts anti-coking capability. V/SiO2 catalysts, like V-DMSNs, exhibit high activity and stability due to enhanced V5+ species interaction with silica. Gelation and calcination temperatures affect VOx/SiO2 catalyst performance. Si-beta zeolites offer high surface area and thermal stability. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, with higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design considers support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid sites for VOx species formation. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of active V species. V-based catalysts' performance varies, with the most active ones less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a vital alternative for propylene production, tackling industrial demand and energy shifts. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts encounter toxicity and regeneration hurdles. Innovatively, ZnO-based catalysts, formed via OH group reactions above 550C, offer an eco-friendly solution. These catalysts, featuring defective OH groups, showcase triple the propene productivity at comparable selectivity, marking a significant leap in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and energy efficiency. Innovative catalyst design strategies, including supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and membrane reactors with high oxygen flux, enhance stability and recyclability. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane type and geometry are crucial for efficiency. NiOx-based ODH catalysts are being developed, with potential for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 provide new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Innovative PDH techniques address the limitations of traditional Cr6 and Pt catalysts, which are costly, scarce, and prone to coking and cracking. Aiming to reduce energy consumption, researchers have developed a novel microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM) using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst. This catalyst, featuring cobalt as the active site, tin as a promoter to reduce deactivation by coking, and a carbon nitride phase as support, opens a new route for efficient propane utilization at low temperatures, effectively overcoming challenges in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts being active but facing issues like poor selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering. Innovative strategies, including doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties reacting with catalyst surface oxygen atoms, is pivotal in oxidative dehydrogenation. Efforts also focus on balancing activity and selectivity through single-atom catalysts, acid-base property tuning, and oxygen site ratio control, supported by computational methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a key process offering high selectivity. Innovative catalyst design strategies, focusing on ZrO2-based catalysts, address deactivation issues. Smaller crystallite sizes and the monoclinic phase enhance activity and selectivity to propene. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, demonstrating its effectiveness in PDH processes, particularly in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of C3 and C4 alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, is a promising propylene production method. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, are pivotal in PDH. The active site isolation strategy enhances catalytic performance. A synthesized catalyst, CoOx@NC/S-1, exhibits exceptional PDH performance with high propane conversion and propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing catalyst deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using vanadium oxide catalysts, offer an alternative. Innovative design strategies, such as controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, suppress coke deposition, enhancing stability and performance in nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To address catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts with tailored active sites. These advancements promote selective dehydrogenation, minimize coke formation, and maintain activity at high temperatures, ensuring stability and recyclability essential for commercial PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining traction as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably the use of V-based catalysts on mesoporous solids like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, are being developed to tackle deactivation issues and enhance stability and recyclability. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit superior catalytic activity and stability, crucial for industrial application. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to maintain stability in PDH without gas-phase O2 and fully recover with oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. confirmed the superior catalytic properties of VOX/MCM-41, attributing it to the stability of VOX species. These findings highlight V-based catalysts as a promising candidate for commercial PDH processes, with optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts demonstrating remarkable long-term stability in eight reaction-regeneration cycles, maintaining approximately 91% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH emerges as a critical propylene production method, addressing growing industrial demand and limitations of traditional techniques. Catalyst deactivation, notably due to coke formation, poses a significant challenge. Innovative strategies include hydrogen cofeeding to reduce coke, Pt alloying with metals like Sn, support modification, Pt size adjustment, and exploring single atom catalysts. Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, guiding catalyst design. These advancements aim to enhance stability and recyclability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting global energy demands and evolving industrial needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. Innovative catalyst design, such as employing high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts, tackles deactivation issues. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, disperse Zn species and minimize side reactions, producing cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable ZnO catalysts suitable for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene, estimated to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, traditional production methods are strained. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a promising alternative, with innovative catalyst design strategies addressing deactivation issues. Chromium-containing Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are key to high chromium dispersion, crucial for CO2-assisted PDH. Dealumination followed by chromium dispersion through impregnation yields excellent catalysts, with redox cycles between Cr sites playing a significant role in the oxidative pathway. The number of redox Cr sites directly impacts propene yield, and dealumination affects catalytic properties, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene and high acidity favoring propane cracking to lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and conventional production limitations, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to address deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, both oxidative and nonoxidative.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a promising alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge, is being addressed through innovative design strategies to enhance stability and recyclability. These strategies include alloying, single atom catalysis, and strong metal-support interactions. The fraction of active sites increases as metal particles shrink, but this can lead to deactivation due to side reactions. Design strategies aim to control the geometric and electronic states of the catalyst to inhibit these reactions, such as by modifying support acidity and coke mobility. The interaction between metals and supports, like Pt and CeO2, can lead to highly stable clusters that resist sintering and maintain activity even at high temperatures. These advancements are crucial for improving the overall performance of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. It tackles catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies, enhancing stability and recyclability, as highlighted in emerging literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing industrial demand for propylene, facing challenges with alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx, which deactivate due to coke deposition and lack full activity recovery. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations, with O2 eliminating coke and lowering reaction temperatures but risking overoxidation, while CO2 consumes H2 without oxidizing hydrocarbons but results in less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are explored alternatives, requiring frequent catalyst regeneration and facing issues like low reaction rates or toxicity, needing resolution for industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of conventional production, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing propylene demand and limitations of conventional oil-based cracking, propane dehydrogenation (PDH), especially nonoxidative PDH, offers a viable alternative, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but recent catalyst design advancements, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, significantly improve stability and recyclability, addressing deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Innovative catalyst design strategies, like CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhance stability and performance. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high activity due to stable VOx species. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 show improved performance, with VOx/ZrO2 being five times more active than VOx/Al2O3, attributed to higher proportions of active V3+ species. Catalyst design must consider support nature, affecting metal-support interactions and acid site formation, crucial for surface VOx species stability. Preparation methods can tune the proportion and stability of the most active V species. The performance range of V-based catalysts is significant, with the most active ones being less active than Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a critical alternative for propylene production, addressing oil-based process limitations. Current PDH technologies using Cr or Pt catalysts face toxicity and ecologically harmful regeneration issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst offers an environmentally compatible solution, with supported ZnOx species enhancing activity. Under industrial conditions, the ZnO-based catalyst demonstrated superior propene productivity, marking a significant advancement in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques offer an energy-efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are crucial for overcoming deactivation issues, enhancing stability, and improving recyclability in PDH processes. Supported oxides of p-block metals are evaluated for selective hydrogen combustion in redox mode, while doped ceria shows promise as a solid oxygen carrier. Membrane reactors with high surface area and oxygen flux are being explored for dehydrogenation of alkanes, potentially enabling cogeneration of alkenes, hydrogen, and electrical energy. Efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are under investigation, with electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may offer new perspectives for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Facing the limitations of traditional PDH catalysts based on Cr6 and Pt, which are costly, scarce, or harmful and prone to coking and cracking, innovative strategies are being developed. These strategies aim to reduce energy consumption in PDH processes, particularly under conventional reaction modes. A novel CoSn/NC microwave catalyst has been introduced, operating under microwave catalytic reaction mode (MCRM). This development offers a promising route for efficient propane utilization at lower temperatures, addressing the need for cost-effective, stable, and recyclable catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and limitations of traditional production, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative. PDH, using Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including deactivation and selectivity issues. Innovative strategies, like doping with promoters and modifying carriers, aim to enhance stability and recyclability. These are critical for meeting the projected global demand of 130 million metric tons by 2023. The MVK mechanism, involving reactants with reducing properties and oxygen vacancies, is central to oxidative dehydrogenation, with efforts focusing on improving catalyst performance and the activation of the CH bond in propane at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative, offering high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, notably ZrO2-based catalysts, tackles deactivation issues by optimizing phase composition and crystallite size, enhancing activity and selectivity. ZrO2's ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites, crucial for propane activation, highlighting its industrial relevance and potential for improving PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, address growing propylene demand and production limitations. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and effective, are crucial in PDH, with active site isolation enhancing performance. CoOx@NC/S-1 exemplifies this, achieving 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity with no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, showcasing innovative design strategies to overcome deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and conventional method limitations. Supported vanadium oxides emerge as promising PDH catalysts, with high activity and selectivity. Innovative design strategies, like controlling surface structure and hydroxyl groups, enhance stability and overcome deactivation issues. Surface-bound hydroxyl groups on VOx/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suppress coke deposition, improving stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. To combat catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies are crucial, featuring single-atom, alloy, and supported metal catalysts. These advancements aim to enhance selectivity, minimize coke formation, and improve stability and recyclability in PDH processes. Robust catalysts, capable of withstanding high temperatures and maintaining activity, are essential. Strategies include employing late transition metals, main-group metals like Sn and Ga, and optimizing metal-support interactions to boost resistance against coking and improve overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative, particularly through the innovation of V-based catalysts supported on SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3. Studies by Bai et al. and Sokolov et al. underscore the superior catalytic properties of V-based catalysts, notably on mesoporous γ-Al2O3 and MCM-41, achieving high activity and stability in PDH reactions. Sokolov et al. further reveal that VOX/MCM-41 catalysts maintain stable properties without gas-phase O2 and can be fully recovered through oxidative regeneration. Rodemerck et al. highlight the correlation between VOX species and catalyst deactivation, suggesting V-based catalysts' potential for commercial PDH processes. Optimized VOX-SiO2 catalysts, with controlled gelation and calcination temperatures, exhibit long-term stability in PDH, with propane conversion decreasing from 55% to 45% over eight cycles, while propene selectivity remains at 91%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a viable alternative for large-scale production. However, Pt catalysts in PDH face deactivation due to coke formation, affecting performance and stability. Innovative strategies are being explored to address these issues, including the addition of reductive gases, alloying Pt with other metals, modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and investigating single Pt atom catalysts. These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability and stability in PDH processes, crucial for meeting industrial demand and overcoming traditional production limitations. A systematic analysis of coke formation on Pt catalysts is essential for further improvements in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and the constraints of conventional production, PDH techniques offer a viable solution. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, avoiding steam cracking. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies employ high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites as supports for ZnO catalysts. These zeolites, with their structured framework and controlled acidity, aid in dispersing Zn species and minimizing side reactions. The resulting ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, making them suitable for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising industrial demand for propylene, projected to reach 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternatives to traditional production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH), particularly in the presence of CO2 (CO2-PDH), offers a selective process for propene synthesis, addressing this demand. Innovative catalyst design, such as chromium-containing Beta zeolites, tackles deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. High dispersion of redox chromium species in Beta zeolites, achieved through dealumination and impregnation, significantly boosts catalytic performance in CO2-PDH. Dealumination of Beta zeolites followed by chromium dispersion produces excellent catalysts, with low acidity promoting high selectivity to propene. In switch operation mode, CO2 presence accelerates the propene formation rate over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolite catalysts, demonstrating the effectiveness of these catalysts in enhancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, tackling catalyst deactivation through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, as industrial demand rises and traditional methods face limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene. A major challenge in PDH is catalyst deactivation, which can be caused by coke formation and sintering of metal nanoparticles. Innovative design strategies are being developed to enhance catalyst stability and recyclability. These include alloying and dealloying to modulate surface electronic structures, single atom catalysis to isolate active sites, subsurface catalysis to alter reactivity, defect engineering to create specific reaction ensembles, metal-hydride chemistry to weaken metal-carbon bonds, and strong metal-support interactions (SMSI) to prevent sintering. These strategies aim to improve selectivity, reduce coke formation, and prevent metal nanoparticle sintering, thereby enhancing the efficiency and recyclability of PDH processes. For instance, the use of reducible metal oxides like TiO2 can improve catalytic stability and propylene selectivity by electron transfer to Pt atoms, while the addition of elements like Sn can inhibit carbon-carbon bond cleavage and allow coke precursors to migrate from active metals to supports, reducing coke coverage. Understanding and addressing the deactivation mechanisms is crucial for the development of more stable and efficient PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing catalyst deactivation through advanced design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative processes, aligning with industrial demand and global energy shifts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address growing propylene demand, innovating catalyst design to overcome deactivation. Alternative catalysts like GaOx, MoOx, and VOx face rapid deactivation due to coke, lacking the stability of PtSn and CrOx. Oxidative dehydrogenation, using O2 or CO2, overcomes thermodynamic limits but poses overoxidation and heat management issues. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals offer selective hydrogen combustion but require frequent regeneration and have toxicity concerns. Further research is crucial for enhancing stability and recyclability, advancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and conventional production limitations, PDH offers a viable alternative. Innovative design strategies, notably supported vanadium oxide catalysts, combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability in PDH processes, thus improving selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and constraints of conventional oil-based cracking, PDH techniques, notably nonoxidative PDH, emerge as a cost-effective alternative, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. Thermal deactivation remains a challenge, but innovative catalyst design strategies, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, are pivotal in addressing deactivation, improving stability and recyclability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and catalyst deactivation challenges. Innovative design strategies, such as CADH for synthesizing mesoporous Al2O3, P modification to reduce VOx polymerization, and Mg addition for anti-coking capabilities, enhance catalyst stability and activity. V/SiO2 catalysts, prepared via direct co-assembly, exhibit high dispersion and stability. VOx/Si-beta zeolites and VOx/ZrO2 show improved performance due to higher proportions of active V3+ species, as demonstrated by studies showing increased propane conversion and propene yields. Catalyst support nature and preparation methods significantly influence the formation of surface VOx species, affecting overall catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing industrial demand. Traditional Cr and Pt catalysts face toxicity and environmental issues. An innovative ZnO-based catalyst, formed through a reaction of support OH groups with Zn atoms at high temperatures, overcomes these challenges. This catalyst, with active ZnOx species, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, making it a promising solution for enhanced stability and recyclability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer an alternative for propene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. PDH can lower energy requirements, making the process more efficient. Challenges include decreased alkene selectivity at higher temperatures due to dehydrocyclization and coke formation. Innovative catalyst design strategies enhance stability and recyclability, using supported oxides for selective hydrogen combustion and solid oxygen carriers with high oxygen flux. Doped ceria shows promise for selective hydrogen combustion, and membrane reactors with high surface area are explored. The nature of the VOx phase is critical for VOx-based catalysts, and efficient NiOx-based ODH catalysts are investigated for electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation. Insights from homogeneous catalyst systems and enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may lead to more efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene, PDH techniques are addressing limitations of traditional methods. Cr6 and Pt-based catalysts, while effective, are costly, scarce, or harmful, and suffer from coking and cracking. The direct PDH reaction under CRM is energy-intensive. Innovative catalyst design strategies, such as the novel MCRM using a non-precious CoSn/NC catalyst, aim to reduce energy consumption and improve efficiency. This approach, where cobalt acts as the active site, tin as a promoter to prevent coking, and carbon nitride as the support, opens up high-value applications for abundant propane resources at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202001640"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has become a promising alternative. PDH, an endothermic reaction, uses Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, with Pt-based catalysts facing challenges like poor propylene selectivity, rapid deactivation, and instability due to coke formation and sintering at high temperatures. Innovative design strategies, including promoter doping and carrier modification, aim to enhance stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. These strategies address deactivation issues by controlling the ratio of oxygen sites on the catalyst surface and modifying acid-base properties, leading to improved selectivity and reduced byproduct formation. The MVK mechanism, which involves reactants with reducing properties reacting with highly reactive oxygen atoms in the catalyst surface to generate oxidation products and oxygen vacancies, is crucial in oxidative PDH. Computational methods support the development of these catalysts by aiding in understanding structure-reactivity relationships and screening potential candidates.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01262A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH presents a promising alternative with high propene selectivity. Innovative catalyst design, notably ZrO2-based catalysts with optimized phase composition and smaller crystallite sizes, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing activity and selectivity. The monoclinic phase of ZrO2 outperforms tetragonal ZrO2, and its ability to release lattice oxygen upon reductive treatment creates active sites for propane activation, making it a cost-efficient and environmentally friendly choice for both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.02.012"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging shale-gas propane, meets rising propylene demand. Cobalt catalysts, abundant and efficient, are crucial. Active site isolation boosts performance. CoOx@NC/S-1, a synthesized catalyst, achieved 40% propane conversion and >97% propene selectivity, showing no deactivation after 10 hours at 600 degrees Celsius, addressing deactivation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing demand for propylene and limitations of traditional methods, PDH techniques, particularly using supported vanadium oxides, offer an alternative. Innovative design strategies focus on controlling hydroxyl groups to suppress coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability and recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes by balancing activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201800123"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production, PDH offers a viable alternative, converting propane to propylene and hydrogen. Catalyst deactivation, a critical challenge, is being addressed through innovative design strategies that enhance stability and recyclability. Key approaches include using promoters like late transition metals and metal oxides to resist coking, optimizing metal-support interactions, and controlling particle size to maintain activity over time, ensuring commercial viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene and limitations of traditional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is recognized as a promising alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, notably the use of V-based catalysts on mesoporous supports like SiO2, ZrO2, and Al2O3, tackle deactivation issues by enhancing stability and recyclability. Bai et al. reported high activity and stability for V-based catalysts on mesoporous γ-Al2O3, while Sokolov et al. found VOX/MCM-41 catalysts to exhibit stable PDH performance and full recovery through oxidative regeneration, underscoring their potential for commercial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising industrial demand for propylene, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for large-scale production, as highlighted in quote [2]. However, coke formation, as mentioned in quote [3], significantly hampers the performance and stability of platinum catalysts. Innovative strategies are being developed to address this challenge, including the addition of reductive gases like hydrogen (quote [6]), alloying platinum with metals such as tin (quote [7]), modifying supports, adjusting catalyst size, and exploring single atom catalysts (quote [10]). Computational simulations offer insights into deactivation mechanisms and reaction networks, emphasizing the need for a systematic analysis of coke formation (quotes [11] and [17]). These advancements aim to improve catalyst recyclability in PDH processes, addressing industrial needs and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.1c00331"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques offer a viable alternative for propylene production, directly converting propane without steam cracking. To tackle catalyst deactivation, innovative design strategies focus on stability and recyclability. Notably, high-silica HZSM-5 zeolites support ZnO catalysts, improving catalytic activity and stability. These zeolites, with their structured acidity, disperse Zn species and reduce side reactions, forming active ZnO clusters connected to the framework. Supported ZnO catalysts are cost-effective, non-toxic, and reusable, ideal for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2019.110508"},
{"DOC": "Rising demand for propylene, projected to hit 130 million tonnes by 2023, underscores the need for alternative production methods. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) and related processes like methanol-to-propene are gaining importance. Innovative catalyst design, particularly chromium-containing Beta zeolites, addresses deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. Beta zeolites, with their three-dimensional structure and high thermal stability, are ideal for chromium dispersion. Dealumination followed by chromium impregnation yields superior catalysts for CO2-assisted PDH. Redox cycles involving Cr sites significantly impact propene yield. Low acidity in SiBeta zeolites achieves high propene selectivity, whereas high acidity in AlBeta promotes cracking to lighter hydrocarbons. Switching between PDH modes reveals CO2's positive effect on propene formation over Cr-containing SiBeta zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcou.2019.09.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques are a viable alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to combat deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability. However, specifics on these strategies remain unspecified in the literature, indicating a need for further research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.6b00893"},
{"DOC": "In response to growing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional production methods, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has emerged as a viable alternative. Catalyst deactivation, a significant challenge in PDH, is being addressed through innovative design strategies aimed at enhancing stability and recyclability. These strategies include the development of active sites that favor propylene production over side reactions, understanding and mitigating deactivation mechanisms, and optimizing particle size to balance activity and stability. Smaller particles increase the number of active sites but also expose atoms with diverse local environments, which can lead to deactivation. Design strategies must consider the balance between enhancing propylene selectivity and preventing the formation of coke, a primary cause of catalyst deactivation. By understanding the role of particle size, electronic states, and geometric structures, researchers are developing catalysts that can maintain high activity and selectivity over extended periods, even under the harsh conditions of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing industrial demand and traditional method limitations. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being explored to tackle deactivation, enhance stability, and improve recyclability, although detailed specifics are scarce in literature.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.8b01313"},
{"DOC": "PDH techniques address industrial demand for propylene by offering an alternative production route, especially with the rise in shale gas. Traditional catalysts (PtSn, CrOx) have advanced PDH to competitive levels, but alternative metal oxides (GaOx, MoOx, VOx) suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 or CO2 avoids thermodynamic limitations but introduces challenges like overoxidation and less heat formation. Solid oxygen carriers and noble metals are being explored for selective hydrogen combustion, but issues like catalyst regeneration and toxicity need resolution for industrial viability. A comprehensive comparison of catalysts is desirable to reveal qualitative differences and guide the development of more stable and recyclable formulations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques emerge as a viable alternative. Innovative catalyst design strategies, exemplified by supported vanadium oxide catalysts, tackle deactivation issues, enhancing stability and recyclability, thus improving selectivity and efficiency in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/cs5003417"},
{"DOC": "With rising propylene demand and traditional production constraints, PDH techniques, particularly nonoxidative PDH, offer a viable alternative due to the favorable propane-to-propylene price differential. Despite its commercial success, thermally induced deactivation remains a challenge. Recent catalyst design advancements, including active site regulation, enhanced metal-support interaction, and support modification, aim to improve stability and recyclability, tackling deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_0"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    